hey what's up it's Aaron welcome back to
the Aaron leow show today we're going to
talk about six ways to build monthly
recurring
Revenue welcome to the Aaron laow show
this is the number one show for
passionate physical therapy and
Healthcare entrepreneurs looking to
level up their income and impact on the
world if that's you then you're in the
right place so sit back chill out and
let's get into the
show
and why you should have an MR program so
this is one of the First episodes where
I'm going to dive deep into some
tactical stuff so maybe get out a pen
and paper or maybe you're going to want
to listen to this again and if you
haven't yet please subscribe to the
podcast or subscribe on YouTube um
wherever you listen so that you are sure
to get um access and uh and a
notification when the next episodes come
out because we've got a few episodes
coming up that are super deep super
Tactical they're meant to help you right
now in your business and get some
results so let's talk about monthly
recurring revenue and actually why you
shouldn't rely on front-end
sales so one of the number one
problems a lot of people have is they're
always getting new patients and they're
always selling one thing we're always
trying to get new clients and sell one
thing um this has happened to me and so
I'm speaking from
experience I think there was a
time
maybe 2015 is 2016 I was talking with
Greg Todd and we were just like yeah
we're I'm we're selling courses you know
I'm selling courses people are buying
courses it's great I'm selling cash PD
blueprint I was selling a lot of cash PD
toolkits but every month I was relying
on more new sales I had to go get more
more clients more leads um and get more
sales same thing happens in our Clinic
where it's like hey I've got five
patients better all right I got to get
the bad news is I got to go now find
five more new patients and PTs come to
me all the time and the number one
problem that they want solved is I need
more new patients someone just posted in
our free group the cash PT Nation today
I need some help with marketing
strategies I put together a marketing
guide it's 35 marketingstrategy
um one of the things you do before you
do marketing is we really need to work
on kind of the backend systems some
sales things as well a lot of people
over years are like we just want to run
Facebook ads well any marketer can bring
you a bunch of leads but if you can't
convert the leads and a sale you're in
trouble and if you can't get patients
and clients and customers to buy from
you again it's also going to stunt your
business so I can't remember what the
stat is 10% of people I I probably
should have looked this up but I just
love it 10% of people out there on your
leads list are going to buy from you now
or maybe 20% but out of the people that
buy from you 80% of people would buy
from you again but most business owners
don't go back to their leads list so if
you think about it this way the people
that have already purchased from you are
eight times more likely to buy from you
again than someone who's brand new and
never heard from you okay so that's why
we should be going back you know one of
the fastest ways to reactivate um email
list or even just make some money is to
run a special to people that have
already purchased from you so when
people come into our Platinum Mastermind
one of the first things we do is we run
uh the piff tsunami and we run a new
patient Challenge and these are simple
um simple scripts and strategies to use
to reactivate and generate revenue from
people that have already been
customers so that people when they come
in the group because it's pretty
expensive um they feel like yeah I made
a I made a win I got my RO I right away
in 30 days like that's it so that's the
whole idea I mean people have run this
and uh run this campaign and made $6,000
in one month um 4,000 from one email I
mean shoot Brandon Smith did 40K in a
week um we just had someone else do um
9,000 in her first month um right out of
school um so that's that's that strategy
and that's why some of those numbers are
so big because these people have already
you know trust these uh business owners
they trust the um product and the
service and they just were like yeah
great I'm G to buy again and it takes a
lot of pressure off to know that I can
send an email and or make a couple phone
calls or have a conversation and
generate some
Revenue so that's so that's why like
that's one of the things that's another
that's not even what this podcast is
about but I'm just trying to use this as
an example because monthly recurring
revenue is really helpful so let me just
explain what Mr is it's mrr monthly
recurring Revenue it's when someone
registers for a product or program that
you have and they pay you automatically
every month okay great all right Erin
how do I do that well so Greg and I were
talking and I was like I'm making all
these uh course sales but people have a
ton of questions so what I did was I
started a $97 a month um membership
program and I've talked about on the
podcast before I can't remember which
episode it was it was probably the one
about you know um when to quit I think
it was the recent one on like how to
know when to quit and I talked about
these these prr programs and how
frustrating they were for me how people
almost weren't paying enough to get
results they definitely weren't showing
up at $97 a month and they would you
know so I would give them three months
for free and then they would come in the
cash PG blueprint get three months for
free and then after you know four months
they a lot of people stayed but a lot of
people were like what are you doing
charging me I'm like you click the box
to add this like people don't listen and
so it was really hard um but what it did
was it added another 10 and then $20,000
a month to my
Revenue which was dope so I could make a
bunch of course sales but the course
sales became the re like the became not
the I wouldn't call it a lost leader but
there there was the onetime sale and
then people
stayed okay so monthly recurring revenue
is anything that you can do where people
pay you every month not just write a
check to you every month but it
automatically comes out of their bank
account okay and there's a lot of ways
to do it I'm going to talk about I'm
going to talk about ways to do it in a
minute we're going to talk about the six
ways to build monthly recurring Revenue
um but I want to talk about a little bit
more what is a front-end sale well um
right now if you only have a course or
you're only selling Physical Therapy you
don't even have a front-end sale you
just have one product or service but a
front-end sale is is the thing that
people buy on the front end so you think
about Grocery Stores um the most uh
popular items in grocery stores are in
the back kind of on purpose so meat and
vegetables and cheese and milk they're
all the way in and the eggs they're all
the way in the back so what do you have
to do you have to B walk through and
past a bunch of other items and
products something about the two grocery
stores I know is like the meat the eggs
the milk um the cheese they're all in
the back so I got to walk by uh the
expense of olive oil you know I gotta
walk by the herbs I gotta walk by the
the crackers that are $6 a box for a
bunch of air so where does the grocery
store make their money they make their
money not on these like items that
people want to come in for but they make
items on all the other sales like those
last minute sales it's a much bigger
markup so the front end sale is the
thing that you start with the backend
sale are the things that people buy
along the way that they also need as
part of this journey so let's think
about it in context of physical therapy
you come in for p and you pay your
co-pay and the therapist had shows you
the exercises you need some theab bands
so they charge you $5 for theab bands I
mean I would never charge someone $5 for
theab bands but we're in a cash practice
I would give you the theand but you come
into our practice and you need to do an
exercise and you need a theane or Rumble
roller or some gray cook bands and those
things cost me they cost me 20 to 25
even 30 something dollars you come in
for PT and then I'm going to sell you
one of those about $45 or so
I'll make a little bit of money that's
not where we I mean that that's not the
money that sends me on vacations but
it's another thing that these people
need to complete their journey and we
generate revenue on it and it helps it
certainly does so there's backend sales
um so so the front end Sal is the thing
that you're doing the main thing that
you're selling but if you think about
this sometimes the main thing that
you're selling right now isn't really
the main thing that you're selling let's
let's use badas for an example he's a
COO fitbody boot camp one of the main
things Fit Body Boot Camp is selling is
these Fitness franchises but and bados
also has I believe he's got interest or
did have interest in the software that
ran the facility um he also has either a
partnership or something in a lot of the
they oh the nutritional supplements so
before Co I think they were Partners in
like one of these drink companies um but
then they also built a truline
supplement company and so people go and
they um get a subscription to truline
and they find out because fitbody Boot
Camp and it's like he's created or
helped build all the things that are
part of what someone needs to stay fit
and
healthy not just the memberships and
even they have a mastermind for their
fitbody boot camp owners so you know and
and a lot of those things pay people are
paying monthly revenue for and there's
the memberships so it's monthly Revenue
every month rather than a one-time fee
okay so the problem with relying on
Front End Sales is you always need more
new customers or clients or leads and
you don't know what your income is going
to be like next month like I can guess
but I don't know how many new people are
going to come in next month but I can
tell you how many people I have who owe
me uh payment for next month I can know
what my I know what my future Mr is
going to be next month because I've got
contracts with pretty much everyone that
they need to give me 30 days notice and
so I can say well no one's giving me
noticed so these this m people owe me
this much money in 30 days and that
least gives me a 30-day lead time but I
know they all won't all go away
overnight so one of the pro other
problems is your income's up and down
and so how do you not just predict your
income but make it a little bit more
even is instead of doing onetime sales
all the time for courses or physical
therapy we get people into long-term
programs okay so if you're following me
so
far let's talk about so so one of the
solutions is to build a monthly
recurring Revenue program which is is
exactly what I did and what I've done um
in mult multiple ways um in both of my
businesses okay let's say you're selling
yeah let's just say you're selling like
even in-person ConEd courses people come
once but they're going to have qu on
going questions so maybe there's some
kind of monthly subscription or
mentorship I mean there's a lot of
different things we can do here a lot of
things I've helped other people build so
let's talk about high ticket or low
ticket okay there are a couple different
options it's like what do I charge a lot
of money or a little bit of money your
probably your first instinct and
inclination is to
undercharge okay you're probably like oh
no one would pay this okay so just
remember that like that's probably what
you're thinking you're thinking oh $49 a
month or $250 a month or $2,000 a month
that's just way too much I should charge
very little okay so number one if you're
like on Instagram and you're getting a
10% commission um to give someone a 10%
discount on something else that's not
mrr right that's not you might get a
recurring commission um and maybe you
get some like I've got some affiliate
things and I'll make a you know maybe a
couple thousand doar a month on
affiliate deals that I've got and they
just keep happening and I can promote
their things and or not um and they're
sticky enough that I get some money in
exchange but that's also not my primary
thing it just really isn't I mean just
relying on that wouldn't wouldn't feed
my kids for the month
um so let's talk about high ticket or
low ticket so low ticket there can be
some prices that are low ticket that are
great and then High ticket so low ticket
I'm going to say anything
under 150 bucks 100 bucks okay High
ticket is really anything over probably
$1,500 to $2,000 okay is high ticket
High tickets also like per month or like
say per even if it's 1,500 a month
that's about 15,000 or more per year um
so that's pretty high ticket but there
can also be $100,000 days and $100,000
years so just know that there's no hard
and fast rule then there's also kind of
like this medium ticket which is like
the 300 to 1300 $300
$1,200 type of price range with a low
ticket product or membership you need a
lot more
people so for instance to make $10,000 a
month in monthly recurring Revenue I'm
going to do some math where we're
looking at divide by let's say
$49 that's 204 people like that's a lot
of people
and it's not unreasonable to expect uh
Wes Watson who um I know through uh
bados and and some of his events um
spoke an event a few years ago and he
had he was making $600,000 a month on a
$49 trainerize subscription that wasn't
his only product I mean the guy was
making millions of a month um and I
think now he's even got more people in
it like I don't know what that is but
that's like thousands of people in there
so you want to make a million dollars
divide by 49 a month you need 20,000
people in a $49 a month program that's a
million per month you want to make a
million per
year divide by 12 divide by 49 you need
1,700
people okay there's 1,700 people in the
United States with back pain there's
1700 people in the United States with um
pelvic floor problems there's 1700
people in the United States who own a
business like that's absolutely
reasonable um to expect just know that
you need to get in touch with many more
people to do a low ticket program than
you do a high ticket program so low
ticket you need more people high ticket
you need less people um but it allows
you to do a little bit higher touch and
bigger
results but not necessarily spend more
time okay so one of the fallacies is
that if you charge more you need to
spend more time with people people don't
care about really don't care about your
time they care about results so it's not
how much time we spend together it's the
results I can help you with wouldn't you
agree like I mean you might not like the
way my breath smells I don't know I
think it's fine but you don't want to
sit with me but if I can give you a
strategy to add $10,000 a month to your
business I mean does it matter how much
time we spend probably not you know
especially if I can give you that
strategy in 30 seconds and you implement
it in 30 seconds then under a minute
you've added 10K to your business and
then if we see each other and hang out
like who
cares so um you kind of want to decide
like where do you want to be and
probably the first price you decide is
probably a little too low just know that
um and I know this from experience and
you can hear this in one of the past
episodes where I talked about my
programs the more people pay the more
they pay attention and the better
results they get so our Mastermind
members right now who are paying over
$2,000 a month are getting massive
results um one member uh just messaged
just showed today Joey C4 I think his
first full month in Business Without
working his other job did 22k um I mean
he started a few months ago but you know
I mean that's dope um Katie gurling
uh has a couple other pts and she joined
us doing I think 22,000 a month and then
after first month she was doing 27 and
then um her second full month after
joining The Mastermind um she did 34,000
in the month so she added over she added
$112,000 per month in about four and a
half five
weeks right 100% worth it 100% when I
was charging similar people $97 a month
they didn't show up to calls and they
didn't do the work and they complained
about the next $97 charge which is
totally fine um but it wasn't important
enough for them to do the work and get
the results so there's a big difference
in that and for some things low ticket
is great there's a lot of low ticket
subscriptions that you and I are both
subscribed to and we get a ton of value
out of them we just
do I mean even $97 a month for something
like clickfunnels I did that for years
you know I a boards app I think it's 30
bucks a year there's a voice recording
app that I use it's 30 bucks a year and
it just charges me every year and I
record all my coaching calls with pedos
using that I mean I use it all the time
it's great so just know that there's big
differences and and um a lot of
opportunity here by the way if you want
to work on your Mr program specifically
and personally with me then um that
might be a good you know time where we
need to hop on a call like a strategy
call together maybe it'd be great for a
mastermind or some private one-on-one
coaching just reach out to me
um okay here's six ways to build monthly
recurring
Revenue I'm going to go through them and
then I'm trying to give you an example
of each number one a low ticket app
number two a low ticket coaching like a
low ticket coaching program number three
a low ticket membership similar but
different okay and I'll explain um four
medium ticket like software software or
and then there's five medium ticket
therapy or coaching or like a group
program
and then six High ticket High ticket
coaching or high ticket like concierge
service okay those are six ways all
right let's talk about them a low ticket
app I mean if there's a fitness app out
there I've heard more people use and
have success with trainer eyes I've had
um coaching clients use it um you know I
just told you Wes Watson use it I've
looked I don't use it because we don't
do that type of therapy but I went and
looked at the pricing and the structure
I've advised some clients to use it and
it's great I mean for what you pay to
use their service and what people will
pay you and the experiences I've heard
it's great so what would might that be
that might be like uh fitness health
coaching um it could be in addition to
physical therapy you know hey when
you're a patient you get this for free
and then when you're no longer a patient
it's just $49 a month and this is our
extended program so after your plan of
care you get on this but during the plan
of care we get you on the program or
maybe you have a program um Joe Gambino
is one of my clients and and we built up
something like this where if you want to
get Joe's like stretches and um therapy
programs I think he's got a course um it
was called like it was a kinstretch
course and then from the course you
would get a deal to get into the monthly
uh recurring membership thing which was
managed through train rise and then we
built that as Mr program really
dope um number two low ticket coaching
it's kind of different than an app so an
app is going to maybe do coaching but
I'm even thinking um like Brandon
Smith's Discord group he has this um
Discord and he managed it started it
using um patreon and I think at first it
was there was a $5 and a $10 a month
option and for five bucks a month you
got a free coffee once a month and he
put hundreds of people into this program
we started working together and he went
from like you know a dozen people to 400
people in that group low ticket coaching
or Facebook group so this might be
business coaching life coaching Health
coaching it could be you know Fitness
coaching Etc you're not really using the
app but you're using coaching and so
they kind of go back and forth but
different like you know like one is
access to an app the other is really
access to a community and you to answer
questions okay and then there's a low
ticket membership so they're all
memberships but let's think about this
like a course a gym membership so maybe
you own a physical therapy facility and
for 50 bucks or 100 bucks a month or
even 200 bucks a month you're your
patients can have access to your
facility okay this is something we did
uh Robin ringberg who works with MMA
fighters and people like that and one of
the things that we um sort of set up was
a recovery membership where people get
to come and they get the access to the
normate tech boots I don't know it's
like 100 bucks a month and they get to
come and it's hands off for you as the
owner it's like self-service you know
you can think of like Massage Envy or
stretch Zone you can go in for one
stretch session but if you sign up for
their monthly membership like massage
club or whatever it is and it's you know
each massage becomes 55 bucks a month
and you get one a month like that
becomes like more of a membership you're
a member um you know and then there was
like what I told you the $97 Mastermind
I did was it really it wasn't really a
mastermind though um but that was the
first name that I had for it when I went
to uh 397 um we called it Inner Circle
and then I added my PL be did the
Platinum Mastermind did over $1,000 and
dropped the Inner Circle but anyways I
just want to say that there's a lot of
um a lot of options there there more of
a membership there's using an app
there's using really a community and
then there's like this membership which
can be in person or online four medium
ticket okay what's medium ticket well I
think there's a couple things there um
there's medium ticket software so number
four is medium ticket software so
something think about like clickfunnels
you know it's $97 a month for up to 20
funnels and then above that it's three
i7 a month and you have unlimited
funnels and I pay three i7 a month for
clickfunnels and I have been for years
so that's a software thing um Brandon
Smith and I have partnered together to
build out a DPT preneur he's a coaching
client and um you know partners because
we're bringing a lot of our uh course
members and my coaching clients over in
to DPT preneur and when you go in
through my link and you can get my
Snapshot which includes all the emails
I've written the forms automations
website templates Etc ET and it's a
software it's well worth it it's an
all-in-one software that does everything
that clickfunnel you know it's like
clickfunnels plus active campaign plus
many chat plus hoot site plus type form
plus calendly plus oh gosh what else uh
your website your Weebly account your
WordPress your blog plus your twilio
your text message SMS DM things and you
know you can save hundreds a month
because all those things are together
versus you know buying them all a cart
like I have um and it's a software but
it's not really a software clickfunnels
is they built the software and dpd
preneurs we're we're basically taking
someone else's software and and branding
it and putting our own content in um
what's it called uh intellectual
property in there to help it make you
even faster we're doing the support
onboarding Etc and it's a it's like a
medium ticket thing it's um anywhere
from one 97 to 497 depending on the
features you get and whether we do ads
or AI
Etc which is great okay so that's number
four so some sof I mean you could do
trainerize at 4.97 a month I mean the
the idea might be is more of a so this
is number five medium ticket therapy
coaching or a group for $4.97 a month
you get access to the course and you get
uh the trainerize app that you know like
you can white white label trainerize as
well um and it's Etc and you get access
to me and all these things and really
it's similar it's just you're charging a
different
price well let same medium ticket you
join the coaching program you get the
course for free so instead of selling
your course for a th000 bucks people
join your $400 a month coaching program
and they get the course for
free I've done that it's great you know
I did find out that when people came in
uh for the course they stayed for the
course and they left and so I made less
money money although I had some people
moving forward the average stay was 3
months which is right when the course
ended and you know I went back to
selling courses and did Mastermind
rather than course plus this other thing
so um but it may work for you and it's
worked for a lot of people so that was
my inner circle you joined my inner
circle at 397 a month and you got the
cash BD blueprint for free um but what I
realized is people after going from 97
to 397 people still didn't show up to
calls they was just there for the course
um which is fine um it's one of the ways
I've put over a thousand people through
that program and um but it was a
headache and frustrating for me and like
I said you heard about that on the one
of the last episodes so another medium
ticket program we do is our Wellness
Warrior program you do a physical
therapy Planet care in our clinic and
for some people they just will benefit
from coming in once a month or once a
week ongoing or once a quarter and based
on their frequency of visit we set up a
monthly recurring charge for them so
most people come in once a month and
it's $250 a month and if you want to
learn how we set up our Wellness Warrior
program and how you can do that in your
clinic we go through that in our
Platinum Mastermind um membership area
when you get onboarded that's one of the
first things that we go through is how
to create this how to create your prices
programs and set up a Mr program for
your
clinic another kind of medium ticket
kind of group thing think about this is
BNI I can't remember what it's called
but it's a networking group and it's
it's like 4 to 600 bucks a mon month I
can't remember what it is I I'm I'm not
actually a member I've looked into it
but it just came to mind because people
have mentioned it recently to me you
know networking groups um that are
couple hundred bucks a month I mean
that's a monthly recurring Revenue let's
go back and like low ticket is um you
know those boxes that you get like
butcher box was more of a I paid for
three years during coid and luckily I
got onto this in 2019 it was 150 bucks a
month for you know I don't know 25
lounds of meat fed the family it was
great I actually stopped it because once
I got divorced uh I wasn't making meals
as much I wasn't feeding as many people
and it was too much and they didn't have
a plan that supported you know Aaron 50%
of the time and you know the kids few
days a week so I stopped but uh it was
really great medium ticket there's a lot
of different things you can get courses
for free it could be like uh like the
Inner Circle that I did which was 3.97 a
month um you your Wellness Warrior
program is ours is 250 a month you get
one visit and access to tools resources
a discount on any additional visits Etc
something like
BNI okay so write down your ideas what
could you do what could you offer people
every month what access could they do
and what could the price be and then
there's High ticket coaching which is
kind of like our Platinum Mastermind
group right so it's like the higher
ticket people want to get more time or
more money back remember it's not always
about the money it's about how much time
do you save as well um so I've known
some people who will do more concierge
therapy and they'll fly around the
country with someone and you know
sometimes they'll do it uh kind of Alla
cart but really it's more of like a
monthly retainer for services they just
you just pay a monthly retainer and you
get access to my services when you need
it or not and it gives people a lot of
security and there are people in the
around the country who will do that you
know I mean you hear about it a lot more
through like professional athletes um
and uh there's really there people that
are extremely busy wealthy successful
business folk and they would gladly pay
2500 bucks a month to be able to fly
into town and get access to you um for
therapy even if it's only for an hour or
two a week or hour or two a month I know
that those people exist because I've
heard about it and then there's things
like our Platinum Mastermind or the um I
was a member of Empire Mastermind a few
years ago Empire was um a two-time
payment so it's a little different it
was uh 50k for the year um something
like and I could think I made it in two
payments but um Taki's black belt group
and boardroom which I'm now a part of
those are monthly payments and you get
set up on it and it just comes out and I
get the value or not I can show up if I
want to or not it's you know my
participation is on me but that's the
high ticket coaching we even had a
patient in our Wellness Warrior program
who came in multiple times a week with
her husband and they were paying us
about $2,000 a month and it's a high
ticket membership and it was really nice
so those those are some of the um
examples and the different uh things I
think if there was anything else that I
wanted to explain or share with you
about creating a Mr program is this one
create it do it and then here's the
problems you're going to run into what
do you do when people want to cancel
what kind of agreement do you need to
have with people what uh happens if
someone doesn't come in for their visits
or their payments default what happens
when someone complains or they didn't
know that you were going to charge them
and how to deal with all those things
you know those are or they write you
hate emails because you charge them when
they didn't want to or they're crit what
do you do in their credit card defaults
so there's a lot of other things like I
want you to have those are all good
problems I want you to have those
problems you know what happens when
three or four people decide to quit all
at the same time or they break their
contract how do you deal with that if
you have those problems you've got
money-making problems so before I solve
those problems let's get your your
program started and if you feel like you
need some more help just shoot me a DM
and we'll see what we can do to help you
out um I think that's it for today those
were six ways to build monthly recurring
Revenue I would love it if you would
share with me somehow whether it's a
comment below this video or in a DM or
shout out on Instagram through your
stories you know what was most helpful
for you about this what what did you
learn what do you know you already need
to do um and uh keep me posted on the
things that you build and I'll see you
on the next show adios
hey what's up it's Aaron thanks so much
for taking the time out of your day to
listen to the show if you have an
established PT business and you want to
10x your marketing time income impact
and scale your business to multiple six
or seven figures then I'd love to invite
you to join me or someone on my team for
a free strategy and scale session on
this call we'll help you get clear on
your goals identify the obstacles in
your way uncover the hidden
opportunities in your business and then
we'll map out a three-step action plan
so that you have more fun help even more
people make even more money much quicker
and you'll leave the session feeling
clear confident and excited about taking
your physical therapy business to the
next level sound good if that's a yes
just DM me the word call over on
Instagram at Aon laow and I'll get back
to you with all the details thanks so
much and we'll see you next week on the
show
