I'm Derek Nelson I worked for Aaron for
a year and I have out-of-network basic
clinic right now I've been open this is
my eighth month I found Aaron up when I
was in school I still phonograph school
and I was looking at I started clinical
rotations and I found out pretty quickly
that I didn't wanna do the insurance
thing because of straight to me in
patients at one time and I just felt
like they weren't getting one thing he
did so I reached out to Aaron and and
asked him hey you know just like
point-blank like what's the chance to
you hired me
instead of buying your course and
luckily enough he was hiring Aaron knows
a lot you've always got something that
you'd be working on but you take you
take again and welcome it the biggest
impact immediately and you take it and
run with it and then once you're done
with that you have something else to
move on and it it never ends the
benefits are going to the to the live
events are you surround yourself with
people that are just like you so you
could possibly even build up a
relationship with somebody meet there
and then number two is you can ask
questions you could you know talk with
other people and Aaron usually does like
a hot seat where people come up and sit
and ask questions about their business
and get one-on-one the course is
beginner it's very okay start here and
then when you're ready it's you need
somebody to talk to in life if you're
going to continue
or that you do a course is great but
everything within a course isn't
necessarily going to be beneficial to
what you I would say the one thing that
Aaron's help you with impulsivity to
always put something in front like
there's always something there there's
always something to watch there's always
something to look at there's always
something to do so you never get bored
he never you're stuck
[Music]
[Music]
you
