you flip the script don't sell one visit
at a time sell the transformation so I'm
gonna give you two proven strategies for
raising your rates one you raise your
rates just a little bit five to ten to
twenty five dollars or you flip the
script don't sell one visit at a time
sell the transformation so I'm gonna
tell you how to do both of them because
I've done both of them sometimes just
raising twenty-five it seems like a lot
but it still might not be enough like
let's see her at seventy-five raising
your rates twenty-five dollars isn't
enough if you're at you know a hundred
or one hundred and ten or hundred
twenty-five you're gonna raise him
twenty five that's still not enough and
I can't tell you what to charge if I can
tell you that one fifty per visit is
probably the low end of what you should
be charging especially if you want to
grow and scale your business especially
if you want to provide an amazing
service to your patients and its really
scary like a lot of people like you only
go up five bucks at a time ten dollars
max so 25 is a good jump so here's how
you're gonna do it number one all new
patients get the new rate old patients
they don't need that old rate cycle al
off their plan of care if you need to
raise your rates on people that are
coming let's say they are they just come
to see you on a regular basis once a
week once a month whatever you what this
is what you do is you say look mrs.
Jones
until I just want to let you know July
1st then you feed the new investment you
don't see the rates don't see the price
you don't say the cost you say look the
rates for physical therapy are changing
is just gonna be a hundred and seventy
five dollars they go all right cool you
don't need to make any excuses nothing
let's do it all right great it's like no
that's a little expensive then what you
say is Miss Jones I totally get it
what I'll do for you
is because you come in every week if you
want to go ahead and pay ahead for your
next month
your next ten weeks or the finish of
your plan of care ahead of time honored
at the current rate great because it's
not really to finish their plan of care
usually if they have three or four
visits they'll they'll be out of here
and it's not an issue you see at all you
know if you want to go ahead and pay for
the last one you can have the same rate
no big deal but you know for people that
are coming on a regular basis get them
in get them a package ahead of time they
pay ahead of time which is still more
better for you and then it gives them a
while to go oh yeah okay now when
November rolls around they've run out of
their package and they come see you at
the higher rate and they're totally cool
with it
that's method one don't post that you're
raising the rates don't email to
everyone that you're raising rates
people that are not your patients do not
need to know otherwise you're likely to
turn off people who don't need to know
they just don't need to know only
current patients need to know and just
let him know in person even if your
clinic has only been open three or four
months and you realize or four days you
realize that your rates are too low
raise them if you feel like you're under
charging raise your rates here's the way
that we raise our rates one hundred
dollars per visit I'm gonna tell you
exactly what we did we I realized it 147
it wasn't enough to to have an employed
physical therapist and an employed
patient care specialist and to turn a
profit in the business it's not that I
didn't get money in my bank account
because I was paying myself a salary but
1:47 wasn't enough for the business to
turn a profit on paper so I was like I
gotta raise my rates we went to 250 I
didn't just tell everyone look mrs.
Jones I know you're only paying 147
today but next week you're paying 250 no
we didn't do that people would have
bounced boy so if you find yourself like
I'm at 85 and I've realized I really
should be at 175 this is the method
you're going to use if you're at 175
you're like damn I need to get to 75 or
even 250 this is the method you're going
to use if you are at let's say you're
already charging 240
you want to just go above 250 and you go
right under 300 to like the 299 this is
the method you're going to use you're
not gonna sell one-on-one physical
therapy you're not gonna sell one hour
at a time you're not going to sell one
visited time you're going to sell the
transformation that they want okay you
have to have to find that out in your
interview what you do is you know okay
for that problem average patient is
eight visits or at least eight visits so
or five visits so mrs. Jones my
recommendation is we get you into our
back to running program or or you know
something 5k program or back to the gym
program or our total body complete
program or our physical therapy complete
program whatever it is that the name is
relevant the name is related to what
they want and the price that you offer
is related to how many visits you think
it's gonna take to get them a really big
result or close to their goal so if it's
five or eight for us for our patients
it's eight visits so mrs. Jones
my recommendation is because remember
you're the doctor
my recommendation is we get you into our
total body complete program is just 1998
when you decide to move forward I'm
gonna finish the evaluation I'm gonna do
some treatment with you I'm gonna teach
you the two exercises I want you to do
at home over the weekend and then I'm
gonna give you a customized plan of care
so that you can dance at your daughter's
wedding run the 5k next week and feel
like you're strong and confident and
capable so you're good role model for
your daughter without you feeling like
you're going to injure yourself or do
some permanent damage how does that
sound
boom most people are like that's exactly
what I want you're speaking my language
you know why it's because I'm repeating
the things that they told me before
so now 1998 is a small fee in comparison
to what they really want do you get that
it's a small amount like $2,000 is
nothing compared to you not getting my
foot amputated not dying on a surgical
not missing out on CrossFit for another
two months or six months not doing
permanent damage to my spine which is
what a lot of people think is going to
happen to them not doing permanent
damage to my knees 1998 is nothing
compared to those things it's a whole
hell of a lot compared to a copay down
the street to get some Eastham hot packs
ultrasound leg lifts upper body
ergometer in 15 minutes with the
physical therapist because they have
three other people that our okay that's
a I'm not selling that I'm selling
something completely different based on
what patients are telling me they want
so what do you do you do that with every
new patient with the existing patients
you let them cycle out their plan of
care you don't need to have it raising
your rates conversation with them if you
have people that need longer care or
ongoing care what we did and what you
can do is you create an ongoing wellness
program for them so what that looks like
is for our wellness Warrior Program we
charge 249 75 per visit based on what I
just explained so they pay that per
month they get one visit a month when
they sign up they get a free massage
they get a water bottle a t-shirt a nice
Welcome Packet liz's why my two
businesses are great I was selling
physical therapy differently now selling
coaching and and courses and I said what
if I sell the physical therapy I got to
sell the coaching boom and there's a lot
of things that I do in my coaching
business like I do my physical therapy
business we're not selling a commodity
we're selling a custom solution that
they can't price shop for absolutely I'm
not selling dry needling I'm not selling
in a far or or whatchamacallit this
woman caught that and they can go around
price shop I'm selling a custom solution
you absolutely got it so you can create
an ongoing bonus program for those
patients maybe it's 5 10 20 25 percent
of people that need or want it's ok if
they want ongoing care they want to
check in with you once a month so they
don't get taken out of playing golf
again I have no problem with that
ok
you know if someone comes in and there's
nothing for me to do I say hey let's
want to come back in three months six
months let's do this once a year but the
person that needs to something ongoing
on a regular basis once a month or every
other week we do we charge them
basically the same amount and they get
one visit a month plus they get a lot of
other benefits priority scheduling they
get access to their physical therapist
they get a nice Welcome Packet etc the
way we did that when we went from we
raised the rates a hundred dollars what
we did is we took our existing patients
who were paying 147 and we said look
we're gonna raise you up $50 and what
you're gonna get is the same as
everybody else but they're in the
founding member rate only founding
members get that and they we I mean the
eight or twelve people that we had that
were on a continual basis they all went
for it because we stacked the value in
their favor and they understood that the
value was in their favor and now we've
got about I think we've got ten founding
members and we've got two who are
founding members but they have a
different unique and special package
there's unique to them because they come
see us more frequently and we have
another half a dozen or a dozen people I
can't remember on our new rate as a
wellness warriors and it's recurring
revenue every month so there's two ways
like if you're just gonna go up a little
bit like do that you look my student
Julie she base rates four or five times
last year she realized it was too low
and she finally is now up to 250 but she
did like ten dollars at a time until she
got to like 175 and and then it was like
oh she just got her confidence she's
flying out to 250 and a decent amount
people got upset because she didn't
quite do it the first couple times right
and then she did it right no one got
upset and she's crushing it you can you
can like creep up or you can just go
where you need to be and to go in both
ways you don't need to tell people who
don't need to know what you're doing
when they come back and they become a
new patient yet they've been gone for
six months
come back create the new offer and just
let them decide if someone comes back if
they finish and then like six weeks
later they're like ah I kind of tweaked
something and I've raised my rates like
I'll just honor the old rate with them
but if it's something brand new it's a
new problem will create a new offer and
we have not had any problem with that I
mean we had someone just this past week
who used to come see us even at like two
two rates ago and she's coming back in
we have dozens of people like that it's
not a problem it's all up here in your
head and once you fix this then you fix
the wallet and the bank account because
I'm not trying to blow up my bank
account I'm trying to blow up your bank
account but if my bank account did blow
up I'd be able to give away more money
to organizations that mean something to
me and what I want to do for myself and
for you is to create a profitable
business because we're not in business
to give things away we're in business to
create profits money is energy which
allows us to do more in the world
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
