so what we're talking about is the sales
script for closing patience and when
we're talking to patients we need to get
the transformational benefits the number
one thing the leading nurse and why
they're calling and what they really
want once we get to that point of the
conversation it's it's not a okay can I
tell you what we do and talk about okay
we do one-on-one treatments there for an
hour only once a week if we're like oh
yeah it's only once a week
well you know people gonna have a
reference point what happen to PT or
they don't know what PT is they don't
know what we do or how we can help other
people and then it
then what we want to do is we want to
sell people on the transformation and
make the monetary value you seem small
in comparison to what they're going to
get so when you give this part of the
conversation or the script or the you
know call with people what you want to
ask is you find out all these things you
say is it okay if I tell you a little
bit about how we got people we help
active people stay fit healthy or mobile
without pain medications injections than
the surgery I've had people just like
you the past week you tell a little
story so so who had the same problem
we've helped them with their balance
giving their arm overhead and now
they're back to feeling confident and
active so they can play with their
grandkids which is does that sound like
something that you're interested in yes
absolutely or is that what you want or
does that sound like you
yes so one things we're also doing is
getting yes is an agreement from people
before we were making our sale so we
want to get multiple agreements so
that's why it's important to like ask
permission
is it okay if I ask you a few questions
yes okay so now people are on this like
does it sound like you yes does it sound
like something you're interested in yes
okay great so we're getting these little
small trial closes ahead of time and
then we're going to tell people how much
we charge it's not we charge 147 but we
only need to you once a week it's okay
we do now we take we would want to say
huh these also back up it's a it's not
147 and we do the features of our
business was your one-on-one hands on my
flesh with a straight leg once a week
you know a doctor physical therapist
treating you those are all features we
need to enhance the benefits that people
are going to
see so you can say the features because
they're important but you can say look
our program started just $147 that's the
minimum of investment you need for us to
know exactly what's going on
at the time of your visit we'll know
exactly how long we need to see you and
to help you get to your goals so if you
decide to move forward what that looks
like is we'll send you a questionnaire
and we'll say do a questionnaire and our
intake forms so we'll send you to take
form of online we'll get you scheduled
for your appointment and in the process
of getting to their goals or their
vision and so you restate those things
so getting you back you feeling
confident on your feet raise your arm
overhead to be able to play with your
grandchildren while avoiding all their
pain and not just physical pain like the
things are struggling with so avoiding
having arm pain or shoulder pain while
you're playing basketball and you know
being them able to go out of your house
because you're worried about you know
whatever it is they just told you and
we're going to get you to the process of
getting exactly what you want and work
together so that you can be able to do X
Y & Z the things that they told you they
want to do how does that sound so now
what we're doing is were asking for
agreement how does that sound great
we're agreeing on the last thing we just
stated which is everything they want
knowing that they don't want not the
price so how's it sound awesome
okay mrs. Jones would you like to come
in on Monday or Tuesday or Monday
morning we're better Tuesday afternoon
Monday morning okay 90 Antonio we
started given them two options that are
we could also go insane ok which program
would you like to start on but we you
know but that's not really for our PT
practices if they've agreed to coming in
we don't know which program until we
evaluate them
it's which they can get you in for an
evaluation oh that's ok that's a little
expensive out though well then ok and
then if you're like that's a little
expensive we haven't found the thing or
answered all our questions so then we
can go and say look well is there a
question or concern that you have that I
haven't answered you know oh well it's a
little expensive I understand yeah I'm
on a budget too if I was able to find a
program that meets your budget it also
allows us to get you back to doing the
thing they want is that something would
that work for you yes or no it's a
little expensive okay well then I don't
know I need to check with my selling so
well then we can start kind of
addressing the objections but then we
can go say we'll look it sounds like
you're still a little unsure about how
we can help you and what I'd like to do
is invite you in for a free body diagram
is it and it's about the two eustress it
together one on one so that we can go
over all your concerns and I can take a
look through your body and see exactly
what it is that's going on tell you
exactly how we can help how does that so
you know if you or even you repeats it
we I can do this discovery this turbine
diagnosis you can help you and show you
exactly how to get back to blank and
avoid this so you can do all these
things how does that sound great you
know I've already now often different
Frieda's and we just kind of go through
them some people have more objection so
we can go over more Egyptians in another
video but it's the sales process of
price and features minimize the price of
features and maximizing the impact of
the transformation that they want which
relies on the earlier part of
conversation
