today what I'm gonna do is help you
understand HIPAA and how the HIPAA
privacy rules affect your physical
therapy business so my name is dr. Aaron
lab our I am a physical therapist I own
a cash practice here in Greensboro and I
am a physical therapy business coach I
help physical therapists scale their
time income and impact and one of the
biggest questions I get is Aaron is my
cash practice whereas my business
covered by HIPAA or what HIPAA privacy
documents do I need number one I want to
let you know I'm not a lawyer so this
isn't legal advice and you should
probably work with a lawyer to make sure
you have the correct HIPAA legal
documents for your business but what I
want to do is help you understand what
it is so you can go in to a conversation
with a lawyer and ask the right
questions so everyone asks well Aaron is
my cash practice covered by HIPAA
because it's not you know there's no
insurance
Insurance regulates a lot of the rules
but HIPAA privacy and security rules
also impact whether you're a cash
practice a telehealth business a
brick-and-mortar whatever it is so I
want to go over what is HIPAA okay
because like I said I get a ton of these
questions and people don't really
understand what it is so there's a lot
of infamous information so my curiosity
all started when my brother who's also
in private practice as a marriage and
family counselor and psychotherapist had
some questions and was telling me about
what people were saying when he's in
Colorado so things are different among
different professions here's what HIPAA
really is I'm gonna read this for you
HIPAA is the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of
1996 so the year I graduated from Duke
and it was primarily aimed at providing
workers employees with an easier way to
continue their healthcare insurance
coverage when they change jobs okay an
area of special consideration was a
transfer or portability of patient
records the easiest way to make data
transfers is electronically and the most
common way is via
unfortunately email is not a secure form
of communication so legislator
legislatures added appropriate language
to ensure the confidentiality of patient
information when it was stored or sent
electronically and this became the first
legislation to address email
confidentiality HIPAA is about patient
confidentiality in electronic format
it's not really about how do we talk
about them in the elevator how do we
talk about them in the office et cetera
that's not really the main purpose of
HIPAA okay so if you understand that
then we can understand the extracted
information because there are privacy
rules and guidelines based on your
profession like the APTA and your
state's rules well your state law will
tell you about how to maintain privacy
and best practices so there is a really
interesting worksheet that CMS provides
about HIPAA bellick is my practice a
covered entity and this is one of my
first questions well am i a covered
entity and so this is really complicated
so I'm gonna kind of go really slowly
but the flowsheet goes something like
this and you can find the flow sheet in
the link below the video there's a link
to my blog post you can go and read
through this so while we're here just
remember don't forget to subscribe and
use the notification bell to subscribe
and let your friends know about this
video and comment you're number one take
away your question below okay so the
flow sheet from CMS it is really simple
it's like do you does the person or
business or agency like my my clinic
bill or receive payment for healthcare
in normal course of business yes okay
great so does this person business or
agency transmit covered transactions
electronically okay in my case we don't
transmit covered transactions so in your
case if you're in network and you have a
Clearing House or you send patient
records to insurance companies for
reimbursement then the answer would be
yes okay now if you answered no you're
not a covered healthcare provider and
not
entity but that's not the whole story
okay so that's just for like the
security rule and not the privacy rule
does it I hope that's making sense so
there's two rules in HIPAA there's a
security and a privacy privacy is that
the privacy peace security is how I
manage the documents okay
there are certain standard transactions
like claims and encounter information
payment and remittance advice claims
status eligibility like health care
eligibility enrollment and disenrollment
request to obtain referral
certifications and authorizations
coordination of benefits and premium
payments if you're doing those then
you're a hypocrite entity in the privacy
and security rule if like we are a cash
practice you're not doing those that
still means you need to ensure that
you're abiding by the privacy standards
which means to have a a HIPPA statement
of privacy practices available to your
patients whether it's through their
intake forms or in your clinic waiting
room or on your website and we have that
in all of those places in our patient
sign as part of their intake that
they're aware that they've received
access to this does that make sense so
certain standard transactions are these
transactions I've said that we do but if
you do them on fax or by a phone call
that doesn't require it to be a HIPAA
covered transaction because it's about
taking these actions and transmitting
patient data electronically so if you're
doing it via email all right so it says
certain standard transactions plus an
electronic electronic transmission of
data it equals a covered entity status
HIPAA Privacy Rule allows healthcare
providers to communicate with their
patients electronically via email
provided you establish reasonable
safeguards when doing so so you can
communicate with your patients via email
like everyone does it you can do it okay
you just need to provide reasonable
safeguards such things as don't go out
and send a mass email to all of your
patients and have them all see seed
that's not or even BC seeing what you
need to do is use some kind of software
like active campaign where you're taking
a reasonable precaution because what
that does is they only send one email to
each customer but allows you to send
bulk messages to individuals makes sense
if you were a physical therapist in
private practice and you accept payment
by cash check debit or credit cards
these forms of billing do not make you a
covered entity because you're not
transmitting electronic data to someone
else like a Blue Cross Blue Shield for
payment in reimbursement yes there's an
electronic transmission of a credit card
data but that doesn't mean that you're a
hypocrite entity if you're a physical
therapist in private practice and you
live in a state with limited direct
access and you fax your patients
physician the plan of care to sign
you're not entering into one of these
certain standard transactions and doing
so does not make you a covered entity
here's the thing whether you're a
covered entity or not it's not the end
of the world what you need to know
really is that HIPAA is about
transmitting data electronically in the
electronic transmission on faxes
considered analog telephone is
considered analog by voice is considered
analog if I do it electronically it
depends on the type of conversation I'm
having am I trying to get claims am I
basically going going in communicating
with the health insurance company right
if I am trying to communicate with a
patient's physician I think I'm gonna
pick up the phone and call them I don't
need like a special anything that's kind
of assumed but remember like I said I'm
not the lawyer and I'm not the one
that's setting up your standards of
practice and privacy practices you need
to do that with a health care lawyer our
practice is a cash-based physical
therapy practice and does not fit the
definition of a covered entity ok HIPAA
consent forms we don't so we don't have
people consign HIPAA consent forms we
give our patients their patient data we
don't give it directly to insurance
if insurance company does request it we
give it directly to the patient and it's
the patient's conversation with the
insurance company okay are you following
me
I'm gonna go slow cuz this is not the
easiest stuff okay after going back and
forth with my healthcare lawyer a few
times since I first looked up hip
information and I wrote in a blog
article that's linked to below we are
not a covered entity and we didn't sign
up ba a with anyone I realized well
because not all the information was on
the CMS website okay it said I wasn't a
covered entity but I really was under
the privacy standard but not the
security standard and so even the CMS
website doesn't have and make that
distinction so we have a BIA with like
Google Google with Google because we use
Google Drive for a business we have a BA
a with intake q because we use them for
our scheduling and our intake forms and
who else might we have if we did
electronic faxes you use one of those
certain faxes we don't send faxes and we
used to do it analog faxes anyways so
you gotta understand that in order to
use something like zoom if I want a a
HIPAA compliant zoom portal I have to
get the Enterprise Edition which is
about $200 but I can go and pay an extra
$10 to intake Q and get a HIPAA
compliant to health for 10 bucks
so because zoom won't sign the BAA
because they don't want to take the
responsibility but someone who's already
got a HIPAA compliant portal will likely
do that so we still like I said we used
to use analog fax and we don't send
patient notes to insurance companies we
send them directly to patients our
lawyer also recommended everyone sign
that they've received our HIPAA notice
of privacy practices and we have
patients who give us testimonials for us
to use like video written that we put on
our website etc sign a photo and video
release form okay that's outside of
HIPAA but is more of a privacy thing if
they leave it on a Google
view or Facebook review or Yelp I don't
go after them to have them sign it
because they've left it publicly does
that make sense so this is how we comply
with the rules there's a lot more to it
but what I'd love to know is what's most
confusing for you about HIPAA leave it
in the comments below I think the number
one thing that scares people really is
the fact that you feel like okay if I
don't know this then Big Brother's gonna
come and get me and I'm gonna get in
trouble
right but really this rule is written
for portability of patient information
when they change jobs and if you put in
your best practices like you have a lock
on the laptop you have a password to get
into the laptop you have a lock on your
door and you have patient files in a
cabinet and someone breaks in you've
done your best you know like you've put
in reasonable controls to keep people
from taking the information right now
what's suck if someone broke in but
you've done your best and that's what
you need to worry about is do your best
okay so click on the link below to get
all the details go read the blog post
that I've written I spent a lot of time
writing it and very clear read it a
couple times watch the video and then
comment your number one question below
like and share this video and subscribe
using the bell and I'll see you guys on
the next video
thanks so much
[Music]
