I'm going to teach you the six ways to
start a business as a physical therapist
assistant
and how to make more money as a PTA
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hello my name is Dr Aaron labauer I'm a
physical therapist I'm a massage
therapist I'm actually a yoga teacher as
well
and I coach Healthcare Providers
physical therapists ptas occupational
assistants chiropractors acupuncturists
Etc massage therapists to grow a
business make more money start a cash
practice and do it all without relying
on insurance
um this is a question I've gotten twice
in the last week so I was like well let
me make a video about it because I know
other people are going to have it so tip
number one if you have an online
business or shoot you have an in-person
business and you get the and you want to
Market online you get the same question
over and over again
make a video put it on YouTube put on
your blog that's where you'll probably
find this so the question goes something
like this
hey Aaron I'm super interested in
information and guidance you have to
offer I'm wondering if you have any
advice for ptas who are looking to start
a cash business
are we better off becoming certified
personal trainers and get additional
certifications such as assisted stretch
coach to achieve a similar goal I've
been looking at being a trainer or a
stretch coach Etc here's the issue and
so if you're watching this and you're
not at PTA a physical therapist
assistant is licensed but they need a
physical therapist to do an evaluation
in order to be able to like directly
touch a patient and provide a Hands-On
some kind of intervention in a physical
therapy setting that's kind of the
limitation whereas a physical therapist
doesn't have that limitation a massage
therapist doesn't have that limitation
chiropractors OTS Etc and OT assistant
so this may be good if you're an OT
assistant same principles are going to
apply you need a
occupational therapists to do the eval
most likely based on your Practice Act
these are six ways to start a business
as a PTA okay number one go back to
school and get a massage license so
especially if you like doing Hands-On
body work
um mouthwash released MFR a lot of
therapists I've worked with who've
studied John Barnes MFR with me who are
ptas have gone back to get a massage
license shoot even physical therapists
have gone back to get their massage
license so they can practice more as a
massage therapist without
limitations restrictions of maybe direct
access in their state direct access laws
have changed over the last 20 years and
more people are
easily able to do that so less and less
dpts are doing that but anyways it's a
great skill set to have I'm a massage
therapist I started in massage school in
January 1999 I finished up
um 10 months later October November I
graduated started I had already started
my my first business in private massage
practice about halfway through the year
because I didn't need all the schooling
to get a San Francisco City License I've
been doing this for over 23 years which
is amazing I have great hands I love
working doing massage I think massage is
incredibly valuable now it's going to
take you some time so depending on where
you live and the laws in your state it's
going to take you anywhere from I think
there was the shortest I knew about was
two weeks of training in the city of San
Francisco and you can get a uh license
to do massager you could you know that
licensing has changed but maybe two to
four weeks depending on where you are
most likely these days it's probably a
500 to a thousand hour program which is
going to take you anywhere from half a
year to two years to complete then you
have a board exam Etc get a massage
license it allows you to directly touch
patients and you would have to operate
as a massage therapist not a physical
therapist you can say I'm providing
massage therapy and body work you
probably could not say I'm providing
Physical Therapy even if you are a PTA
because if your people think you're
providing Physical Therapy then you need
to have a PT through the eval the second
way to start a business
and as a PTA and make some more money is
to go back to school and become a PT now
I know there are these they're programs
that will take you from PTA to PT it's
not the easiest transition there's a lot
of work to do a lot of the things you
did as a PTA won't
easily translation to a DPT program and
that's a three-year program and it's a
lot of extra money
and you probably if you really want to
do it go do it and then utilize it but
don't go do it and then go work for
someone else because you're going to
make marginally more
um for three years and a hundred
thousand dollars in student debt
but that's an option it's absolutely an
option and I wouldn't go back and change
the fact that I went to school and did
prerequisites uh 10 years after I
graduated Etc but that's another option
and then you can start a business and
you don't have to worry about licensing
because you're a PT and you can see
patients so that's one and two those are
kind of the ones that are logical and
take some time but if you're a PTA this
is number three if you're a PTA and you
really are dead set on starting a
business all you got to do is start a
business there's no laws that say a PTA
cannot own a business I mean there are
people that aren't physical therapists
that own PT practices you can start a
business you just either have to hire or
contract out a physical therapist to
work for you
and that may look like either you hire
someone full-time you know you're like
hey I'm going to build a business and
it's going to have two to three physical
therapists Two Three ptas or you know
you're going to treat or not you got to
hire a PT and you can hire a PT anywhere
from 50 to 85 90 000 a year depending on
who they are where you are how much time
they're spending working for you Etc
probably more in the 70 to 85 000 range
but their PT jobs out there they're
people except for fifty five thousand
dollars
and I guarantee for the fifty five
thousand dollars you might offer them or
sixty five thousand dollars you might
offer them they're gonna have a much
better job especially if it's a cash
based practice which is where most of
the questions come from so how do I
start a cash practice as a PTA so but if
you want to do all the the Hands-On
Bodywork you want to do most of the
treatment here's what you do you just
find a PT locally to come in and for 45
dollars a visit 55 a visit they can do
an evaluation for you they can be part
of your evaluation you could have the
person come in for a total body
diagnostic which is really a sales call
you can do that because that's not
Physical Therapy then the PT can come
and do the evaluation and then they've
got this evaluation then you meet with
the patient and you the other PT and you
work together you say Hey you do the TBD
you take them through like a screen you
ask them some sales questions and my
recommendation is just plan a care this
is what it's going to cost we're going
to start with a comprehensive evaluation
at your next visit together between me
and Dr so and so we're going to work
together on your plan of care making
sure you get X blah blah you know like
get all the results you want great they
come in and they see your physical
therapist you pay your physical
therapist a contract rate they do the
eval you do and they prescribe the
treatments but and you guys have a
conversation right and you're like hey
this is what I saw during this this is
what they said and you know we make it
together but the PT writes it and then
you do the treatments and then depending
on the laws in your state
probably they need a re-eval at some
point depending on their condition
within 30 days I don't know I'm going to
tell you this I'm not a lawyer review
your practice act and don't violate it
but it's just like the administrative
referral for direct access there's ways
around it like a sales conversation is
not a physical therapy evaluation you
can absolutely do that then you get the
physical therapy evaluation to start the
plan of care and then and so your sales
pitch my my recommendation is we get you
into our back to the back to running
program back to the Box program it's
typically this so much and when you
decide to move forward we'll get you
started with a comprehensive evaluation
so we know exactly how long it's going
to take to fix this problem and exact uh
pricing Etc you know we just manipulate
the words in the language so that you're
not violating the law but we're moving
people along the path that they want to
be moved along and you pay that person
you pay that PT a contract rate for
evals and reavals and then you do the
treatments it's easy the patient is
going to pay you 200 250 dollars a visit
and you're going to pay a PT a
percentage of that visit and you're
still going to make money when they're
seeing someone else and I can't think of
a better model than you making money
when someone else is doing the work and
then you might go like this is too easy
I'm gonna get that person to treat them
the whole time then you make money while
someone else does work so really that's
like the number one solution to starting
a traditional cash based practice where
you're doing the treatments as a PTA
there's three other ways to start a
business because a lot of people are
saying oh I'm burnt out so I want to
offer these as well number four start an
online business business like an online
coaching business I call it Telehealth
2.0 which isn't direct one-on-one
patient care it's not me and you solving
your back pain problem it's me putting
you into a online running program or an
online like weightlifting fitness
program it's a group program
and maybe we do like an initial consult
sales evaluation to figure out like
where your problems are or what we need
to avoid Etc and I can make a like
training plan so this is more of like
personal trainer like online stuff but
you're a PTA and you have a different
background of knowledge that makes you
more unique than the next person and we
create some kind of like group program
maybe start with a 12-week program you
know a 12-week transformation challenge
for fifteen hundred dollars or something
like that and then you move people into
a recurring Revenue model I've got five
or six of our current Platinum
Mastermind members doing this I built
similar programs for dozens of people
even for our own Clinic we're doing this
in person but uh a lot of people are
doing this online and it's a great model
it's one to many model and you can make
a lot of money doing this you can help
thousands of people and they don't even
have to be in your state Megan Hyde is
doing this with Runners and she when she
first started our Platinum Mastermind
she enrolled three people right away
within the first week for 8.99 a month
or 7.99 a month for three months we've
got Joe Gambino's doing something very
similar he's using a combination of some
courses as well as an app and then doing
um one demand or some one-on-one
Consulting at like a four to five
hundred dollar rate but they're both pts
right at the same time it's not direct
Telehealth it's Telehealth 2.0 we're
doing more Consulting programming and
then the big thing is like hey you need
Physical Therapy locally like you need
Hands-On care you need actual Physical
Therapy work with a local physical
therapist and then we coordinate
together your physical therapy your
online coaching and training Etc there
this isn't a training about how to build
that but I just want you to know that
that is absolutely an idea it's
something that works it's something that
a lot of people have done and you can
make hundreds of thousands of dollars a
year or even a month doing this uh type
of business so that's probably like the
number one way I probably should have
left it to the end but another great
thing you can do is um so number five is
affiliate marketing affiliate marketing
you can sell other people's stuff online
you can start a business we've got a
member Jen Johnson just got married to
Owen she's a DoTerra
salesperson and I've had other
Mastermind members add specifically
Doterra as an alternate or secondary
income stream and that's primarily what
she's been doing and doing that as a
physical therapist and you can make good
money doing these things if it's a
product and program and service you
believe in you can affiliate for other
courses you know I've got Affiliates for
my things like the cash PD blueprint and
PT email engine and even Mastermind
members who make significant amount of
money doing that so you find something
you believe in or you belong to and you
can make money doing affiliate marketing
and you can create a whole business out
of it that's what some people do they go
to ClickBank and they find a program and
they sell the out of it so
affiliate marketing I mean you can do
that especially if you're burnt out on
patient care you can certainly make a
business out of it the one thing I was
going to say don't do don't just go and
do something where you give people 10
off and you get 10 commission ten
dollars here and there that doesn't add
up you want you want something
significant
especially starting off when you have a
small audience just like a 10 discount
to get a 10 commission that's not going
to change your life what you're looking
at affiliate marketing wise is how do
you control the traffic how do you
control the sales and can you make you
know 200 to 2 000 per sale number six so
that's probably I would say that might
not be one of the easiest but it's
definitely a possibility and then number
six is Consulting so there's a couple
different types of Consulting there's a
Consulting that I do which is basically
business to business I help you grow
your business and make more money uh
have more time and do it without
insurance companies dictating how you
treat patients or run your life or build
your business and then there's
Consulting where you work for let's say
an EMR company and they pay you x amount
150 200 an hour to give them advice or
feedback or be a part of their team to
you know test their products and things
like that so that's also a way to do it
um could you do that full-time probably
in a certain capacity it would look like
you're probably Consulting with people
and getting affiliate commissions Etc so
it's probably a combination of things
but I think that the real big
opportunity for ptas is to go out say
hey here's the kind of business I built
or here's the career that I built as a
PTA let me teach other ptas how to level
up in their career their business their
Finance is their Family Fitness
Etc and you can be more of like a coach
for other ptas which could be incredible
I think there's a absolute need for it
so and the doors are wide open so for
any of these so just no it's like go get
a massage license become a PT hire a
contract out of PT start an online
business slash Telehealth 2.0 practice
do some affiliate marketing or
Consulting you can do a combination of
these but what I would do is focus on
one and really what you got to do is
figure out what do you want for yourself
what you want for your life your spouse
your family where do you see yourself in
three years so answer this question and
you can write this down and even if
you're watching this let's say on
YouTube
I want you to write your answer Down
Below in the comments so just imagine we
start working together and I teach you
everything I know and do everything I
can to help you get results now fast
forward let's say three years from now
we're sitting down at a cafe having a
conversation you know I get to buy you a
uh oat milk latte at Starbucks all right
chatting looking back over those last
three years of working together
what's happened in your life personally
and professionally for you to feel happy
with your progress and satisfied with
your results
like we can talk about like
amazing but let's just talk about happy
and satisfied in three years and then
think about so what's happened in your
life business-wise has your business
grown how much money you're making how
many people are you serving how much
time are you working
um personally you know what trips are
you going on how much money's in the
bank how much have you saved do you have
kids do you have a spouse partner
somebody do you have that do you finally
own that boat or that second house do
you get to take that one month trip to
Italy
what is it personally that you want and
then besides each one write down why and
I just want you to don't think about it
too hard but just put down the first
things that come to mind and you're
thinking about money think big add
another zero to whatever you just
thought because it's absolutely possible
if you're doing the right things so
those are the six ways to start a
business as a PTA I'm sure there's
others like you could leave the industry
and go do real estate you know I mean
you could do that that would be number
seven I mean there's other ways to do it
but to stay in the industry those are
the top six ways to do it so by the way
I have a platinum Mastermind coaching
group so if you own a business already
or when you get your business up and
running and you bringing in some income
and you want to join a group of people
uh who are committed and dedicated to
serving patients growing their business
making money and build a multiple
six-figure or even seven figure business
in the fastest time possible this
program is designed to help you do that
in 12 to 36 months all you got to do
send me a DM with the word uh private
and we'll get on a free strategy call in
the meantime if you're looking for more
like how do I start a
online business how do I you know start
a cash practice I'll put some resources
in the links below income impact Academy
will help you start a online business
and sell a course and cash PD blueprint
will help you start an in-person clinic
and build it up to six figures so we'll
have those resources below I think the
number one thing I want you to
understand is just because you're a PTA
or just because you have direct access
limits or doesn't mean you have to quit
if you're dedicated and passionate about
helping people and solving a big massive
problem there are creative ways to
figure it out and this is six ways as a
PTA to start a business and stay in the
industry and I'll see you on the next
video thanks so much
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
