[Music]
welcome back to the cache bTW lunch hour
this is Aaron lab our your host and
today I have my special guest is Kevin
grote Kevin is a is a physical therapist
cash practice owner in Denver Colorado
and he's the owner of t0 physical
therapy and it's are you in Denver like
one little small sub subdivisions or
suburbs I am renting space from a gym
that has locations in North Glen which
is about five miles north of the town
north of the city yeah and then also in
Arvada which is kind of northwest
awesome well why don't you just go ahead
and finish introducing yourself cuz you
know like I've known I've known you for
a while but you know it's like when
those things were it's like I know
Denver but I don't I know no T zero and
I know that you do triathlon stuff but
give us that like what's the specific
thing that you do who you help and why
are you doing this whole thing yeah so I
am originally from Southern California
which probably isn't the best place to
start but I doubt to Denver for physical
therapy school went to Regis and kind of
fell in love with Denver always thought
that I was gonna move back to California
at some point but have since gotten
married and this seems to be the place
that my wife and I want to kind of put
down roots and through my process of
kind of figuring out who I wanted to
work with I ended up at a clinic in San
Diego called rehab United which is an
awesome multi Multi facility clinic and
they work a ton with triathletes nice I
started realizing that my love of
running I'm a college soccer player
former college soccer player turned into
a runner my love of running was awesome
but I loved the fact that triathletes
had you know more than just hips and
knees that you could treat and so it was
it was really fun for me to look at kind
of the collective like how can i
establish myself as as an expert in an
area particularly in a in a sport how
can I establish my
as an expert in a sport without just
focusing on one area of the body and so
I started looking at triathlon I was
like man people are highly motivated
there's a lot of a lot of camaraderie
which there's not as much in the running
running world you have running groups
but there's not as many running teams
there not as many running like groups
where everybody does kind of builds
their life around around that Network so
I started looking at that and I said man
triathlon is something that I'm
interested in something that I enjoy
doing the the group of people is really
fun to work with most triathletes are
really supportive of one another and
it's a growing sport so I looked at that
and I also living in Denver the Denver
Boulder area surprisingly to most people
is one of the mecca's for triathlon and
so when you look at the United States
it's really split between San Diego and
Boulder as the two hotbeds of triathlon
and so I looked at this I'm like man I I
love where I live I love triathlon why
not get to start a practice that's
focused on treating triathletes
specifically so I've since kind of honed
in on the 45 to 55 year old female
triathlete somebody who's not really
focused their whole life on athletics
but it kind of getting into sport later
in life I have a lot of a lot of kind of
moms who their kids are off to college
and they're like okay I need to take
care of myself and so they're looking at
starting running for the first time
starting swimming for the first time
inciting starting cycling for the first
time and like I have no idea how to do
any of those let alone put all three
together and from there yeah I started
my practice about two years ago January
of 2017 started by going through the
cash PT blueprint which is how we got
connected and I've also since started an
online training program and training
platform where I have athletes from
across the country
I do coaching it's it's really small
right now but I'm starting to build a
network of coaches that hopefully by
January of 2019 we'll have the full
platform ready to go and really start
pushing online coaching services that's
great so when you you graduated PT
school and then did you go to San Diego
for like a clinical rotation or did you
you go there to kind of move back and go
no this isn't it like what happened like
between graduating and doing that and
hoping this whole thing so I I've always
I've lived in I'm 30 and I've lived in
probably I think this is my 19th address
that I've lived at in my life I lost
count yeah it's crazy how many places
that I've moved and so when I when I was
in PT school I was like I think I want
to move back to California but I'm gonna
try different places so I did a rotation
in San Diego a rotation in Washington a
rotation in Casper Wyoming and a
rotation in st. Louis Missouri and I got
offered a job at the place in San Diego
and I looked at the benefits package I
was like I can't live in San Diego for
what they're offering me with a couple
hundred thousand dollars in student loan
debt I can't do this right and at that
point the cost of living in Denver
versus the cost of living in San Diego
was extremely different and got offered
a job that was making more money and in
Denver was really excited about where I
was gonna work and really I've had two
pretty crappy jobs since since
graduation
and that basically forced me the
direction of alright if it's not
available for me to just walk into a
clinic and get to treat clients how I
want how am I going to establish
something that gives me the lifestyle
that I want gives me the ability to
treat clients the way that I want gives
me really the ability to to go back to
whit the way that I learned it in school
and actually apply the things that I
learned as opposed to just cranking out
numbers mm-hmm
so that could be a whole podcast in and
of itself is my journey from
graduation to where I'm at now right
right that's that's awesome so tell us
like what was the pivotal turning point
that we were like I got to do something
different was there a was there
something that happened or you know like
a day where you were finishing here and
like oh like this isn't happening
anymore what was that it was kind of a
combination of I remember three
particular moments and I I had a okay
job where I was making good money was
decently well respected was directing a
clinic I saw that I was making less than
10% of what I was building so that was
number one I was like oh wow less than
ten percent of what you were doing
mm-hmm like this is great I'm I met the
point where I'm I'm seeing somewhere
between eighty and a hundred clients a
week it was built through a physician's
group so higher reimbursement rates
because of physician codes just cranking
out numbers and I realized that my plot
I was basically out of plateau I wasn't
gonna make much more money and I was
just constantly trying trying to catch
up I was seeing too many clients I would
go home and I would do paperwork until
9:00 or 10:00 at night wake up and do it
all over again and just the lifestyle
that I that I wanted
I wasn't being healthy I wasn't healthy
at all
it wasn't sustainable so that was number
one number two is I I had moments where
I mean working with you working very
closely with physicians was really good
most of the time but I remember a time
when I had a client who was diagnosed
with plantar fasciitis and I tried to
explain how we were gonna do you know I
was gonna look up the chain make sure
that they actually had plantar fasciitis
and we did some lumbar stuff and some
hip stuff and their plantar fasciitis
got so much better in the first visit
they it had it for a year and a half and
so this woman goes back to her physician
who wasn't very happy with the fact that
I told her she didn't have plantar
fasciitis and he came in you just reamed
me for the
fact that I I contradicted his his
diagnosis like well I didn't really I
told her she had pain in the bottom of
her foot but that probably wasn't what
was the actual issue so I just I
realized okay I'm I'm working more
towards appeasing him than actually for
my client and then the last thing is
another experience where long story
short was basically told because we were
working for the physician group working
with the physician group is how it
should be but I had a disagreement about
something on my on my schedule and the
way that something was handled by the
front desk and asked them to to do
something a little bit differently just
keep me in the loop and my boss at the
time looked at me and he's like you got
to remember that you work for them I was
like I don't work for the front desk
person at a physician's office like this
isn't what I'm talking about and I
realized that this the respect level
there was it just wasn't there and so
like all of these moments where I'm like
okay I I'm working for somebody else not
my client I want to work for my client I
want them to get the best care and also
like have some level of respect and not
just you know when when I come out and I
have my doctorate and they they tell me
that I'm less important than the person
who is scheduling like that's fine that
they understand that they're very
valuable they're very important and I'm
not discrediting that but when you're
like you were you work for them no I
work for my client and so I'm trying to
help my clients the best way that I can
so I looked at I was like there's this
has to change there's no way that I can
continue this long term and and actually
enjoy what I do
right so you get to that point and what
was your thought process at the time
like well I can quit go to home skilled
nursing and just rest this out be a
banker or like what was happening like
did you like had you know because we all
know like you're here because you have a
cash practice that how did you go from
employee who's being told what to do and
not given this kind of freedom that you
you
- you know deciding okay this is what I
need to do I need to go in this
direction start a new business etc so I
knew at some point that I was gonna own
my own business even back through
through undergrad I I've always had that
I want to do something different when I
want to make my own schedule I want to
be able to do things the way that I want
to do them because I think that there's
too many people who are just greedy
about how things are done so I want to
be able to give people give my clients
the best of me so really from the time
that I was a sophomore in college and
started working in PT practices I I was
looking and saying okay what are they
doing well what are they not doing well
picking the good things and throwing
away the bad things and so then I I
started following a number of different
people on Facebook and kind of looking
for that alternative I always thought
that I would go more the insurance based
model and so then I started following
you I started following Greg Todd I
started following Paul Goff I started
following Jared Carter all these all
these people who like hey there's this
this whole new side of things had a
number of friends in PT school that were
like his insurance actually the way to
go and so we all started talking and
when I when I started realizing the
insurance model and how everything was
set up I was like I this just isn't
gonna be sustainable so it was really a
I would have probably done it a lot
earlier but I was I was engaged at the
time and I was trying to figure out how
to you know provide for my wife and
myself and my wife was in grad school so
I would have loved to just jump ship and
go full-bore cash PT and be done but I
actually I started as I started in home
health at the same time so my wife told
me or at that time it was my fiancee
she's like if you can find a home health
job in the next 48 hours
because I had an opportunity at a gym
that I was really excited about like if
you can find a job in 48 hours I'll let
you you can quit your job and we can we
can go this direction and I had two job
offers in 48 hours with home health
companies so I did home health for a
little while but only four I actually
only did it for seven months before I
was able to be a hundred percent
independent at t0 so yeah I think that
answers the question that's awesome
wit so was there something like you said
you had always thought you were gonna be
you know own a business was there
something that you saw or learned when
you were younger maybe back in high
school or younger than that just that
you were like Oh owning a business is
what I want like what makes you like
what gives you the not the like what
gave you the confidence to go say hey
this is something that I want to be able
to do this is something that it's going
to happen for me in the future I don't
know if I don't know if confidence is
the right word I was actually talking
with another person in the cash PT and I
think in your mastermind about this idea
what else are you gonna do you know I so
my my big things in life is I I love
physical therapy and I feel like I'm one
of the few people I love treating
clients um but I don't want to do it you
know 40 50 hours a week mm-hmm I love
coaching triathletes I don't want to do
it 40 or 50 hours a week I love doing
pro bono stuff I've been several
different places in the world and done
and worked in clinics in developing
countries and taught in developing
countries and I love doing that
and I started to look at these things
and started talking to different
different employers and I I realized
that that wasn't gonna be possible and
so and that wasn't necessarily a
confidence thing it was more a necessity
in my mind so I've had I've had months
since starting t0 that I looked at
unlike
if this isn't gonna work like what am I
gonna do and it's still kind of scary to
say like I don't know I don't really
know what else I would do if I didn't
own a business because I I get to do the
things that I love to do in a way that I
love to do them and it gives me the
variety in my life that gives me the
like I I remember asking for a week off
to go to Kenya to work in a clinic and
my boss is like yeah that's fine but you
have to take PTO well great I only have
10 days of PTO and I'm taking seven of
them to go to Kenya which is totally
fine but at the end of the day I want to
be able to do that and also like see my
family who I don't live close to and so
it wasn't less of a confidence thing and
more of a necessity in my mind and I've
seen a lot I've had a lot of people in
my life who have who have demonstrated
what it looks like to be a business
owner my first mentor when I was working
in PT clinics has a really
well-established very successful PT
practice in so I saw him and was like oh
you can do this well and um I don't have
my PT clinic set up the way that his is
but that's and that's okay but I saw I
saw the entrepreneurial spirit I saw the
way that he did it and because it's it
is possible to do things the way that
you want and still get to go on vacation
still get to spend time with your family
still get to do all these things that
you're passionate about yeah that's
awesome and so tell it like you had
mentioned this a couple times like the
lifestyle you wanted like what was it
like I know when we gone on the holiday
like you said I just got back from being
out of town what is it that you like
like what do you like to do and outside
of treating patients or in your business
like wise and why is it so important
what are the things that you want to be
able to do and have time for yeah the
most important thing is is family to me
when I mentioned this briefly my family
is in Washington and my wife's family is
in Alabama and we're in Colorado so we
we don't have any family close to us and
so looking at that and saying okay if I
want to be able
to see my family more often than just
for Christmas and Thanksgiving I have to
be able to do I have to be able to kind
of tweak my schedule certain ways this
sounds weird I don't have kids right now
but I'm trying to build something that
when my kids have my future children
have soccer games like I can go to their
soccer games whenever they're at if they
have stuff at school like I can be there
for them and when I so number one is if
family keeping that as the priority from
there I love I love traveling for races
I love riding my bike I love swimming I
love running I've all that kind of stuff
I'm really active in the church that my
wife and I go to so getting to do more
with church getting to do more with my
family getting to do more with kind of
the sports that I love we love to travel
I've been all over the place this year
which has been really really fun so
that's that's probably the primary
things yeah that's awesome what are you
doing to set up your business what will
what have you done so far that allowed
you to travel so much this year and what
are you doing to make sure that your
business is set up so that you have the
time when you want it you know for
family and kids and you know shuttling
around town yeah all of you have
different things you know yeah I think
one of the biggest things that allowed
me to get into the point where I was
only working at t0 was letting people
feel like they're a part of something
I've said this I've been on a couple
different podcasts and I've said this
every single time let people feel like
they're a part of your growth so many
people that I that I meet they're like
that's so cool that you're that you own
your own business because I think more
people would love to do this but they're
just terrified and so I look at it and I
say hey clients like here's what I'm
trying to do here's why I'm trying to do
it it's for your betterment it's so that
I have the life that I like
spend time with my family yeah I would I
wish that I could spend time with my
family so letting people be a part of
something that is growing is it's kind
of challenging the status quo because a
lot of us will look at it and say the
way that it is right now is not good
what are our other options and I'm
saying this is another option like I
want you to be a part of this I want you
to be I want you to benefit from the the
quality of care that I can provide if
given the opportunity mm-hmm
along with that is when I say like hey
I'm going on a trip with my family they
look at me and they see my clients and
be like yes absolutely we want you to go
on that trip because we see the
importance of of that quality of life of
if you're not taking care of yourself
how are you gonna come back and take
care of us and so letting them see I'm
doing this because it's good for you
it's good for my well-being and because
it's good for both of us now
everybody wins in this situation so
that's kind of the the overarching thing
and then I have not messed around with
mentorship this is probably the biggest
success that I've had like I said I've
worked with Paul I've worked with you
I've worked with Greg I am on the phone
almost every week with a couple
different people just talking about
business and making sure that um we're
discussing what going well what's not
going well and there's I think
isolationism is something that kills
businesses and like I just have to focus
on myself and when I this is challenging
for me but when I have something that's
tough I make sure that I reach out to
people make sure that I I talk to my
mentors make sure that I find somebody
who's done it before so that they can at
least guide me close to the right
direction otherwise I would waste so
much time and money just floundering so
I've spent a good chunk
change in the last two years on
mentorship and I would say that that's
the best money that I've spent yeah yeah
that's awesome
that's great yeah the what would you let
me let me just go into this because I
think this is about the mentorship Pete
thing that people will miss sometimes
what would you say is your return on
your investment for the for the amount
that you've invested in yourself like
like how do you measure that how do you
measure your return how do you measure
like what is it you know what what is it
you've experienced in growth and success
because of because of the mentorship
directly or indirectly hmm oh man it's
hard to put a dollar amount on it you
know like we talked about 10 times 10x
in your business and um it's hard for me
to put a number on it because I'm a new
business relatively new business owner
that has worked with mentors from this
start when I first started though I I
was like I want to just be the general
orthopedic person and really niche down
to I want to work with triathletes and
even more specific than that so that's
been absolutely invaluable I mean I went
from struggling to find clients in the
Denver area to I've had clients who have
traveled seven-and-a-half I've driven
seven and a half hours to see me because
I made myself the triathlon expert in
Colorado or trying to make myself to the
triathlon expert in Colorado you are
already the triathlon expert yeah I'm
I'm that's that's my goal is I want
people to think t0 when they when they
think triathlon is like oh you have to
talk to Kevin you have to talk to t0 so
niche down way more than I ever thought
that I would that's number one I am in
the process of building an online
business which again I've never really
thought was was possible but I realized
that that's a that was a necessary next
step to be able to not just see the same
clients over and over again
as patients but be able to offer them
continuity of care be able to work with
them for the next 20 years hopefully so
that business has been directly because
of mentorship yeah I would I would say I
wouldn't have grown much at all this
year I don't think had I had I not
worked with mentors and I've almost
doubled my business in the last year
well so which is yeah that's huge and
hopefully again we'll be start in the
next section of the business and online
coaching and that has the potential to
do to do really really well so I would
say at least at least doubled my
profitability and if not significantly
more than that all right that's awesome
so tell me like where's the toilet where
are you going let me ask you this first
so where are you going where do you see
yourself in five ten years is it is it
just you and the online business or you
thinking okay hire some other PT use
other staff you have grown scale clinic
and online what what's your focus and
where you headed so again probably the
two sides of it so that on the online
business I have 16 different coaches
from around the u.s. that are all
special specialists in certain areas so
my I looked at it and I said triathletes
want specialized coaching but to find
somebody who's a specialist at swimming
biking running nutrition psychology is
pretty difficult so if do you hire one
person for each discipline or do you
hire a team of coaches that can that can
train you collectively so I started
bringing in cycling next worth running
experts nutrition experts swimming
experts etc and we've been building a
platform so that's that's the number one
thing for that is I'm not necessarily
hiring somebody but I'm collaborating
with a number of different people and
then
we'll hopefully be able to grow that not
entirely certain where that'll go but my
hope is that that will look like I been
told a lot it looks like the ice model
where there's different specialists in
each area and you kind of collaborate to
make one from the brick and mortar side
of things I would love to have a multi
multi-sport training center Wellness
Center that's focused on physical
therapy nutrition psychology everything
so not not in just the like there
they're there but actually have it built
into the model so one of the cool things
about PT is if I charge $200 a session
and build it in that I like every sixth
visit you get a visit for free with the
psychologist that's great I can do that
and so that's kind of what I want to do
is have more of a team approach because
I've seen so many people who would
benefit from like alright you've been
out of your sport for three months we're
on the right track but how are you
dealing with this emotionally like go
talk to the psychologist go talk to the
counselor we can collaborate more of a
team approach how is how is what you're
eating affecting how you're recovering
and really gearing everything towards
collaboration yeah that'd be awesome I
was just thinking back I was like 10
when I streisand you know I used to race
bicycles right hmm so there was a time
at which like when I tried everything
like nutrition was nutrition was crap
compared with actually ate real good
food how would I have how would my
engine have run but there was one summer
where I was like depressed yeah i
wouldnt call it clinical depression
every time i got on the bike oh like
like a month i was like what is wrong
with me why am I doing this blah blah
etc and I got into even like was it a
race across the country and I sat down I
pulled off the side of the road out of
the races like I can't do this anymore
well it turns out my bike was broken I
had a crack in that in the in the but I
had no support like my team we had no
support
I had no access to
mechanics I was my own mechanic I didn't
have access to like you said like a
psychologist or you know pts like you
know all this stuff would be awesome to
have that so this thing is like wow I
wish I had that stuff yeah I want to
share that story because it was like it
was one little thing that was out of my
physical control what was affecting me
physically and emotionally in a lot of
different ways that I think our patients
are experiencing that we can help them
with and that kind of environment would
be amazing yeah yeah I'm I'm really
excited about that online platform I
think just the people that I've talked
to who it's like yeah you're a good
runner you're trying to build endurance
but you don't have any sort of coping
skills with in regards to like when
things get tough which they're going to
look what do you do and so you build and
build and build and build and build and
then one thing just completely derails
you for the whole the whole race or the
whole season because you haven't been
given the opportunity to to develop
those skills so yeah and if it's it just
bills this this kind of middle ground
between the professional athlete who has
all the sponsorships and somebody who's
just buying a training program for 100
bucks and like alright well I'm going to
train for an Ironman and I'm just gonna
do all these different things because
that's what the paper tells me to do how
can we actually walk alongside of you to
maximize the effect that that training
program has on you and then teach you to
teach you to actually do this well so
that you enjoy the sport and it's not
just like a seasonal thing where it's
like okay I'm gonna train for three
months and then I'm gonna not do
anything for nine months and we just
yo-yo back and forth between happy and
healthy and sad and depressed right so
right and are you interplan to integrate
this with your current clinical
offerings they're like are people like I
don't say graduating from PT and air
quotes because people don't graduate
from us they they get to a point
where they want but they always there
they we try to keep them in our family
as patients mm-hmm but are you
transitioning people saying okay let's
get you into the online program is there
like a is is that a thing that you're
doing and getting people go back and
forth between the two or they just
separate entities no they they're they
are very much in line with each other
what I would like it to end up being is
when somebody comes in that's a
triathlete especially I want their
clinical the clinical offering to be
associated a hundred percent with you
while you are an active client you get
access to coaching so that way you can
go through videos you can learn you can
see what it's about so that when you
when you graduate you can transition
directly into the the monthly fee that
way I can continue to stay in touch with
them they have access to exercises they
have access to the continuing videos all
that kind of stuff so I have probably
there's I think there are 20 people on
the team right now and of those people
probably ten of them have been have been
clients in the past in the clinic and
they just kind of bounce back and forth
which is so helpful too because then
they're not spending six weeks waiting
for something to heal that like I could
take care of in one visit and it would
be much easier that way like don't don't
waste time like come in right away have
me take a look at it and then you're
back to full training much much much
quicker so I love that side of things
where they they're starting to realize
that I am their go-to person for every
question that they have and they'll ask
questions on a question like a question
that answer live okay my foots been
bothering me I'll try to answer it and
if that doesn't work it's like hey come
in tomorrow so it's been really good to
have that continuity of care that's
awesome how do you have that I guess
you're just a few technical questions
like you know how do you have the
membership program set up are you using
you got like Facebook grooves are you
doing monthly recurring payments you
know what are some of the details about
how that's set up and made
you know integrates with the business
yeah so I have the whole platform is
built on kajabi mm-hmm
and so that's recurring monthly fees if
you do it a one-time fee every year or a
yearly fee then it ends up getting you a
trifon kit which is awesome too oh yeah
it's a great incentive yeah so it's like
you pay it ends up being 780 dollars for
the year if you pay the 780 dollars you
get a 200 dollar Tryon kit which is free
marketing for me well it's relatively
inexpensive marketing for me at the end
of the day so from there I have monthly
fees and you can buy the triathlon kit
um separate so that's all through kajabi
that also I have that getting you a
small discount for clinical stuff with
me as well and then I'm doing because I
want more touch points more of a
hands-on walking you through the program
walking you through training I also have
a private Facebook group that I do month
or every week I do a question and answer
with all my athletes so you come on I
ask them to post questions beforehand so
I have something that I can go off of
right away and then they comment
questions back and forth so it's not
just a podcast where they can't ask
questions as we go it's more interactive
which has worked out really really well
so far
and then my kind of feeder is the
triathlon injury support group so I have
a a a closed group that is more kind of
small videos kind of helping people
understand what their injury is
understand if they need an MRI
understand all you know what physical
therapists have to offer I try to do
something in that group at least a few
times a week and then use that as a way
to build in telehealth calls and then
use the telehealth calls to try to get
people to join the team and use the team
as a way they can
in you the relationship with people yeah
well it ends up it ends up being kind of
four or five different funnels that kind
of play into each other hmm
and you have people so you're you're
this this like membership like program
online business as a team I mean so it's
a team like you've you're marketing is
like you're joining my team mm-hmm
you know it's a team t0 is it got a nice
name is so it's the t0 training or t0
physio training team so it's still under
the umbrella of t0 and like I was saying
I I don't like the word franchise but
what I would love to have is with the 16
coaches that that are from around from
around the country I would love for
those people to have a local chapter
team so that they can build a local
following so that it improves their
business as well so we have the the
national or international t0 which helps
them have the kind of than the
infrastructure the larger infrastructure
grow and develop as an as an aim and
then from there now all of a sudden
their PC practices in Milwaukee and
Chattanooga and Gainesville um etc can
start to improve because they're
associated with this larger larger thing
oh thanks that's awesome
so that's great it's not just an online
team obviously there are some people I
have somebody whose lives in West Texas
who I don't have a coach anywhere close
to West Texas but she still is a part of
an online program she's more of an
anomaly at this point but I want there
to be you know 30 or 40 people in each
location that I have a coach so that
they still have their um like in-person
nature of a team of being on a team but
then also have the infrastructure of a
larger group yeah that's cool we're not
you know I was racing I had my local
team that I raced with my coach we just
did phone you
Farren go Jim yeah it was almost like
email was around I mean I'm not that old
but it wasn't like email was what
everyone did we just had a call every
Monday night yeah you know and it was it
was great and it worked but and we lived
3,000 miles apart and it you know it
sounds to me like this is something that
can be really huge for a lot of people
and very helpful and I'm excited yeah
that's great
yeah I I like to say that I'm cautiously
optimistic okay don't get don't get too
crazy but yeah it's it's been really fun
to build it's been a lot of work but
it's been really fun yeah what if like
so for someone who's thinking about
starting an online business like that
what's the one thing that you think that
they need to make sure that they they do
when they before they get started with
like an online coaching or membership
program type of every program that you
have oh man
my big mistake was that I tried to do
everything on my own right away so I I
bought kajabi and I made a website and I
uploaded all the videos and then ice I
tried to I tried to scale more I was
like crap I just screwed this up and I I
just messed everything up so then I
ended up using Louise for as a virtual
assistant and having to redo my whole
program which I'm sure was frustrating
for her because she's like yeah you
didn't do this right at all so I ended
up wasting a ton of time a ton of money
because I tried to do it by myself
instead of finding somebody who actually
knew how to do the online like building
a website that's number one
and also for me it's I love the fact
that I I've coached for a number of
years so I've coached really since I
graduated PT school and when I when I
got those training clients I told them
hey here's what I'm trying to do
would you like to beta test everything
and so that was my original group of
people so I had I was doing videos and I
was uploading into my kajabi page and
they could go on them and see like does
this make sense
is there something that is missing can
you ask questions so that I can make
videos specifically for you because
especially for the type of program that
I'm I'm making where I will have
probably 200 videos on this program when
it when it really launches and that's a
lot of videos to come up with content
just by myself but having those people
who are asking questions that was doing
private coaching and then saving those
videos and then uploading them as as
though I was coaching somebody else was
really really helpful that's awesome
that's awesome oh back to your your
your kind of brick-and-mortar clinic a
little bit and ask kind of amazingly the
same thing like what was the like what
was the biggest struggle you had getting
started and is there something that you
would do over again if you're starting
from scratch today the biggest struggle
I I signed a contract with a gym in my
overhead is ridiculously high I didn't
know what I should expect so I was
excited about the prospect of having my
own practice real estate prices and rent
and Denver is pretty high in general so
I was looking and saying like oh well
I'm happy with spending fifteen hundred
dollars a month on a room in a gym and
then I started to talk to more people
and I was like man I this is not really
financially responsible to spend fifteen
hundred dollars a month on rent and then
along with that if I would have known
right away who my target population
would have been I wouldn't have signed
up to or I wouldn't have signed a lease
to work in the gym that I'm at because
that's not their target population so
there there wasn't as much collaboration
as I would have liked there to be either
direction like I didn't feel comfortable
sending my clients to them they didn't
have the clients that I really wanted to
work with and their price point was very
different than mine and so I kind of
beat my head against the wall working
with the gym because they're there
working primarily with people who are
coming in for
you know six-week challenges spending
$50 a session on personal training and
I'm coming in trying to work with
Ironman athletes and charging $200 a
session those price points are very
different so it causes those people to
look in Salem why why would I pay that
much so it's just harder to educate
around that versus finding a gym that
was really high quality really focused
on the same type of person that I'm
focused on I think I could have
collaborated a lot more right away yeah
what what's been the number-one thing
that you've done to get new patients
then like how are you how are you going
out marketing your business is it just
by you know focusing on travelens or is
there traffic into triathletes is it is
there a specific strategy you've used to
get in front of them that's been this
work better than others yeah I when I
graduated from PT school I joined a
triathlon Club there were probably 95
people on the triathlon club that I
joined right away and I was just there I
tried to answer some questions tried to
pull on bike rides with people tried to
go race with people tried to do all
those different things gave free PT
because I didn't have a actual Perkin I
didn't have a place to go and I didn't
know what I was doing so I gave free PT
away to certain people I just was with
that group and tried to be an active
part of that group and then from there
when I started my practice I put it
close to that Triathlon Club and then it
was like hey I'm the guy that's been in
this group for the last three years you
guys should come see me for anything PT
related I did a couple different kind of
I taught a couple different things at
the Tri Club did some running analysis
then like shoulder preservation courses
did all sorts of different stuff with
them so I really focused on those 90
people and then that has since expanded
to a lot more but that was my original
group I am in the process of really
honing in on what my marketing plan is
as far as like Google AdWords and in
Facebook marketing and that kind of
stuff but really building relationships
with an already established community
was the number one thing that I did
right away that's awesome because I know
and I bring this up a you know Denver's
popular place right you want to live in
Denver and I know a lot of I mean I've
worked with a lot of people in Denver
and when we're out there a few months
ago we saw you and a whole bunch of
people it's like only there's a lot of
PT's in Denver like cash-based physical
therapist in Denver and Boulder you know
how have you gotten you know a lot
people say oh there's already someone in
my in my neighborhood you know in my
town I can't start a practice here I
mean obviously that wasn't your mindset
but you know I'm thinking about like all
right so well owner like Kevin like what
is like what are your thoughts on that
like how are you successful even though
there's easily it does another catch
base PT's in Denver that you know you
and I know you know and then there but
we don't I mean yeah I think the I mean
you talk about every one of the mentors
that I've worked with talks about the
abundance my mindset
I would have to look at my numbers but I
it's actually crazy how few people it
takes to have a successful practice and
I didn't realize that right away and
then I started running in the numbers
and I was like I only saw like a hundred
different people in in the first year
that I was open and I did fine
and so I used to think that like I had
to have 300 new clients every every year
in order to be successful and that's
just not the case so realizing that also
realizing like most people don't even
know what physical therapy is and there
are plenty of people in Denver for all
of us to be successful because there are
plenty of people who need us that had
absolutely no idea what we do and so I
was I was talking to Zach Harmon who I
know has worked with you he's in Denver
and we were we were talking we work with
very different clients right he works
with CrossFit I work with triathletes
and it's like I want him to be so
successful because if he's really
successful and he ends up having having
an effect on the greater Denver area
that they start to know what cash
physical therapy is and out of that with
physical therapy now of a sudden people
are gonna look and say like oh well
there's also this guy who is doing the
same thing and he works with triathletes
and that's that's what I am so like I
want him to be successful I want all the
other cash pts to be successful because
there are enough people to go around and
most people don't really even know what
we do anyway so um that's probably a
longer way of saying it yeah I mean
absolutely I you know I mean even when I
was in San Francisco like everyone and
their mother was a massage therapist I
think you know well yeah it's a million
people in like 18 you know 18 square
miles yeah and I think looking outside
the box on what you offer is really
really important too so I had a client
who she she moved into the Denver area
kind of like I won't call it a midlife
crisis but kind of that like type of
thing like moved from the Midwest to
Denver just wanted to experience the
Denver Life wanted to go hiking wanted
to go rock climbing and wanted training
and she didn't want to work with a
personal trainer because she had had a
bad experience in the past and
historically I'd have been like that's
not my that's not my thing like I can't
be training I'm not a trainer mm-hmm and
she's like this is what I want though is
like I want you to help me understand
how to move well and so I started
training her three times a week because
that's what she wanted and we were
progressing everything was going well I
wasn't doing physical therapy and the
rehab sense and so I shifted my focus
from like I'm offering a very very very
narrow kind of service to I can offer so
much as a physical therapist and there
are people who are willing to pay for
those services so now it's I can be
physical I can do like the actual rehab
physical therapy I can do personal
training more you know strength and
conditioning I can do coaching I can do
online stuff I can do telehealth and
that way I look at it and I'm not just
like oh man I need somebody to to tear
the rotator cuff so that I can help them
recover from that like no I can help I
can help somebody become a faster runner
I can help somebody become a faster
cyclist or a swimmer and so I'm not I
don't like to say that I'm I just offer
physical therapy because that's not true
right right well you know that's hi
pecks leg lifts and ultrasound where I
come from so that's awesome that's
really great so is there anything else
that you think is important to share
from your experiences especially for
someone who's just getting started or
maybe it started and struggling to find
their footing and
get their business off the ground yeah
I think understanding understanding why
you want to do something is really
really important not just like I want to
make money but having some sort of
impact having some sort of meaning in
what you do helps you understand that
there when there's you know tougher
times it's easier to to just sit through
those and not really get bent out of
shape that's number one number two be
objective I'm I'm notorious for this
where I I'll be freaking out I'm like oh
my gosh I this month is sucked and then
I'll actually look at my my numbers and
I'll be more objective about him like oh
actually this month was decent like this
month was actually pretty good so don't
let your emotions get the best of you
like really focus on objective growth
make sure you're tracking things which
most people don't do when they first
start they're like oh we'll just it'll
it'll work out no you gotta track stuff
and then was I gonna say is the last
thing oh let your let your tougher times
push you towards something the the
Tartar months that I've had have been
the months of been of the largest amount
of growth ultimately where I look at
some of the systems that I now have in
place oh that came out of you know
January of 2018 where it was really
crappy because I I realized that those
down times were giving me the freedom to
actually do something in my business so
that I can so that when I'm actually
what you know working with clients I
have something that's continuing to work
with work for me as opposed to just
getting emotional or you know freaking
out about it like let's let those things
let those tougher moments push you
towards growth as opposed to toward
stagnation because you're gonna have
tough months you're gonna have tough
weeks and ultimately it's like
rehab it's like you're gonna have a
rollercoaster as long as you're
progressing towards the right the right
end like that's great
and bonus one I have a I have a another
PT who I mentor and she was like is it
okay for me to get a job at a at a juice
bar like if it pays your bills like do
what you got to do like that's totally
fine I'm not going to be mad at you for
going and working at a restaurant or
bartending and they're doing something
like just go and do something as long as
you're working towards your goal as long
as that's not getting in the way of you
putting in time towards what your what
your mission and vision is great like
you have bills to pay I respect that do
it so that's really awesome thank you
very much though those are some powerful
suggestions and thoughts that appreciate
that
so Kevin where if someone was to get in
touch with you or find out more about
your business and what you're doing
where do they find you so the the
biggest areas Instagram Facebook at t0
physio are the two and then the
triathlon injury support group is a
great place to get connected and I'm
sure there are a lot of people who are
listening to this and thinking like man
I would love to be a part of something
as far as the online coaching goes and
ultimately my goal is to expand this so
that everybody has access to this
resource and we can we can all
collaborate and have more of a mutually
beneficial resource so if somebody wants
to reach out to me and that like reach
out to me on Facebook direct message me
or my email address is Kevin at T zero
physio comm so by all means would love
to continue connecting with people
making sure that again I think that we
can all win in this and it's not just me
saying like I got to do this by myself
for myself no I think if we can go
together we're gonna go a lot further
right I think it's absolutely right I
think we can only get we can get there
by ourselves course sort of but we can
get there faster impact more people and
yeah and about in a better way together
and helping each other so yeah yeah
well thank you very much for being on
the show Kevin I really appreciate time
you take away from your businesses and
family and and everything else to be
here so really appreciate that for the
cash quick you lunch hour this is Aaron
and Kevin the groats and we'll see you
guys next time
[Music]
