what's up hey y'all this is eronel bower
this is the catch PT blueprint master
class for December and hope you guys are
just joining us you're in the right spot
we're just gonna wait a few moments to
get that everyone get in to the class
and we'll get started I also need to
load up my powerpoint if you guys have
any questions today just go ahead and
enter them in the chat box if you know
like we'll have time at the end for
questions as well that even questions
aren't related to the topic we're
talking about and if any questions come
along just post in the chat if you're
just joining us right now just let me
know if you can hear me okay if if your
audio sounds good and volume is good and
where you're calling in from let's see
I'm just gonna upload I just go get my
PowerPoint open hey guys doing today
just give me a sign in the chat that
you're here that you're in the you're on
the webinar you can hear me okay here we
are we're doing the mobile cache PT biz
today right
what's up Catherine how you doing hey
Hallie how are you hey Thomas Tania
thanks for checking in how are you guys
doing - how's your practices coming
along you guys have anything that you
thing to share a gia how are you who
else is here other people hidin see
Brian Joyce can you guys hear me okay
just check-in let me know that it just
sounds good alright if anything happens
during the presentation today there's a
refresh button just reload your browser
and just come back in and check us out
all right so what I'm gonna do just get
rolling all right anyone have anything
to share before we get started about how
your practice is going any winds this
week anything anything change in your
practice big since the last time yeah
you know Tonya says practice going okay
need more clients how many clients do
you need how many more people do you
need sometimes it's just getting that
extra one or two people or that one
person that comes in and then they refer
ten people a year so that person is
right around the corner for sure all
right let me load up my presentation so
we're gonna talk about the mobile cache
PT business today and I want to do this
because this isn't necessarily what
everyone's doing at the same time it's
something that a lot of people are a lot
of people are using this start out with
and it's an option even if you don't
have if your idea is in mobile sometimes
people call you and say hey can you come
to my house and you know treat me
because I just got out of surgery and I
want you to come in
let cetera so let's get get over here
let's get rolling on this one all right
the mobile cache PT BISM here we are
mobile cache PT biz this is the
essential guide to setting up your cache
based practice as a home health and
mobile practice and what I'm going to
talk about today is amazingly taking
your cash based practice your physical
therapy practice and getting you on the
road we're going to talk about a
practice overview and basically what is
a home health or mobile practice we're
going to talk about the pros and cons of
a mobile business and what you should
know if you're considering this model
setting it up right
even using technology to make mobile
easy and convenient billing and
documentation a few key differences you
need to know
in marketing strategies for your home
based practice promoting the benefits
and maximizing social media so what do
mobile cash PT biz this is a cash based
practice that provides services at the
patient's home patients office or other
or location other than in a primary
brick-and-mortar location there are a
lot of different variations of this who
here attending today has a mobile
practice or is planning on building a
mobile practice just give me a sign in
the chat if you are or who has done
anyone done this and decided they didn't
they don't want to do anymore or it does
like 50/50 you just let me know let it
let everyone know in the in the chat box
so Tonya does set it for a year awesome
congratulations
anyone else here so this is something
that is really popular especially in in
larger cities and even for people that
want to really start really stripped
down super low overhead let's seize it
Thomas is planning on Brian that's what
Brian does Hali is starting a mobile
product planning to start with mobile
practice and as part of the services
even with office space which is awesome
Paul is planning to start and interest
is that's sort of am I have some home
office and then treat some patients in
the CrossFit gym so that's great yeah so
this is a I mean this is even like you
know people who treat in two or three
different CrossFit gyms around town you
know treat it doesn't have to be just in
patients homes so this is just a really
awesome way to minimize expenses and
maximize some value for patients the
pros and cons of a mobile mobile
practice well the pros that I've come up
with are is very low overhead you know
it really it doesn't cost a lot to put
together you know equipment wise you
need a we'll go over some of the stuff
again before but you get rid of the
a local you know you don't have a
landline you don't have a rent which can
be three hundred to a thousand dollars a
month you you get rid of other utilities
like water and gas electric and you know
there might be some other city licenses
for your place you know that your
brick-and-mortar place you don't have to
up fit it you don't have to get chairs
and waiting room tables and rugs and
lights and etc can be a really
stripped-down variation it also provides
super convenience to patients so
patients really will get a lot out of it
because let's say someone's really busy
and you know they're I know they're like
a quarter let's say like their cost CEO
and I'm gonna give two examples but
their CEO right and they have they work
downtown somewhere they don't have time
in the other day to drive a half hour to
see you or 15 minutes to see you so if
you can come there they'll likely pay
extra because let's say their hours
worth I don't know let's just say 500
bucks but like that was probably like a
thousand bucks they can generate a
thousand dollars well it's better for
them to pay an extra fifty dollars in
travel time or an extra hundred fifty
bucks for you to come to their office
then for them to spend that you know 30
minutes of travel time back and forth or
each way not producing any work so a lot
of people a lot of people have done that
and made a good model of that yeah I'll
just tell you a little story when I was
a bike messenger in San Francisco
laughed one day I was like I'd go pick
up a lot of different things and one day
the tag which is when you have an order
is called a tag the tag was go to the
missing link bike shop and pick up a
rear wheel take it to 325 Montgomery to
that you know 43rd floor or actually
knows we had to go pick up a wheel from
the 34th floor but they didn't really
tell me what it was until I got there
he's like my dispatcher was like you're
not gonna believe this
Aaron it's a bike wheel and the
destination is the
is the bike shop and so you take it to
the bike shop and it's just the guy's
got a flat tire I think of the bike shop
and dispatchers like this is ridiculous
he should be able to change his own tire
so leave it at the bike shop and you're
gonna go do some other work and we're
gonna charge him waiting time I was like
okay so instead of me sitting there and
doing nothing I'm going to picked up
some more packages got more business for
myself came back picked up the repaired
tire which takes all of five minutes in
the five-dollar tube and brought it back
to this guy and they paid I mean the
minimum order was like thirty bucks to
do this and I think they paid about
fifty five dollars for a repaired tire
plus the bill at the bike shop and
that's all to say that the convenience
of picking this up for someone in their
office and this wasn't even like CEO
person this was just like you know
hallway window office person was worth
it for them so this can be a huge
benefit to patients busy people you can
have people who work in a factory who
need some physical therapy and if you
show up at the factory and or their
place of work and can provide treatment
at the end of the day and then it's also
huge you know or on a on a lunch break
or they don't have to spend the time
coming to you so it can it can work in a
lot of different ways it's convenient
it's a lot of times where I I'll order
something on Amazon because you know I
want to take my kids you know two miles
away to the store to order you know you
like to pick up something I forgot you
know like some shampoo that I can just
order on Amazon it's not going to really
impact it might make people locally and
it's a convenience to me so this
convenience to patients can't be
understated and then you've also got a
higher perceived value and even level of
service a level of care so you've got
this like is like so when it's we its
position in a way like we come to you we
take care of you it's a con see this is
like the concierge thing it's like and
it's minimally more explaining we're not
even selling this to our patients this
way but it's minimally more expensive
and actually coming to see me or not any
more expensive or going to see your
in-network
Clinic you know it's like whoa so you're
providing a ton of value in this way of
creating this high level of convenience
high level of value you're providing
like the ultimate service by going
directly to the patients they don't have
to get in their car and drive to you I
mean that's huge so those are the those
are some of the big pros anyone else
have any pros they can think of we've
been doing this for a while but they
like you know go ahead and post that in
the chat here's some icons
it's your travel expense in time so you
might have to travel 30 minutes to see
someone or you and it's gonna take you
time you can get stuck in traffic you
know going along with that there's a
lower number of total patients you can
see in a day so let's say I can see one
patient an hour like 8 a.m. 9 a.m. 10
a.m. 11:00 a.m. 12:00 a.m. if I'm gonna
do a mobile business I'm probably gonna
start my first person to 8:30 then we
finish at 9:30 then my next person who's
gonna be at 10:00 10:00 to 11:00 and
then 11:30 to 12:30 and then lunch so
instead of seeing five patients in my
clinic I'm gonna see three patients in
the morning in order to make the same
amount of money I have to charge more so
that's that's a con so there's a lower
number of total people that you can
serve but in the same amount of time but
that might be a pace that you really
like you know I want to see five
patients in a row and then go home for
the afternoon but you might not want to
see people that packed on top of each
other and then you know be okay with
seeing five patients in an eight-hour
day so that's just a that's like the con
for me a lower number of total patients
and we're not talking you know like I do
a high number of patients I mean you
guys know I see 25 to 30 people a week
and I don't really see 30 people a week
unless it's a super packed week just
because I don't want to see 30 people
oops let me go back so the other one
another con is like no home base and to
me that's like there's no you know your
home base is gonna be your home so
there's no home base to be and you know
kind of help create some continuity to
create a routine your routine becomes
your car the equipment maybe you carry
with you your home and and I like having
a routine in a home base I like having
an address and a storefront but you know
that's my con and I don't know that
that's a really strong one one of the
other the other cons is I think it's and
I go into this later at input here is a
con but it's screening patients so this
might be not really pro or con this
might be more precautions you're going
into patients homes or patients offices
and places that aren't yours they're not
maybe not you might have a small like
there could be consume security concerns
so that's a con as well depending on
where you are what neighborhoods you're
going to where you're driving and that's
an issue with regular home health PT 2
so just be in mind and aware of that so
one of the big things I think it's great
about this in and doing these things in
in the modern age of 2016 and beyond
early 2010 and beyond is using the
technology you know you got to have
something like this what I would
recommend getting an iPad or a
Chromebook probably I would go with a
Chromebook considering the iPads nice
and I do love Apple products I've been
using the keypad on my keyboard on my
iPad lately and it's just like it loses
this connection is Bluetooth connection
really quick you know I go to start
typing and it'll type in a whole bunch
of extra characters etc and I type
pretty quickly so I'm even thinking like
well maybe I should get a Chromebook the
Chromebooks are like 200 bucks you just
need to make sure you can get on
wireless signal the nice thing about the
iPads is you can connect them to the
cell signal you bet there's a Chromebook
out there that does it I just haven't
actually written looked at that the
other thing you can do is just use your
hotspot from your phone
and connect your Chromebook wirelessly
or bluetooth to your phone or even buy a
cable but you get one of those you get
like I said you get your internet access
using a mobile hotspot or a network so
that would be like a cell network and
you got to have a mobile payment system
and I like square there's a lot of
different ones you can choose from if
you're using QuickBooks Online a lot of
times I'll have they'll all have a
mobile they have Oakland will payment
and that just might be the easiest most
simple streamlined thing to do you do
online scheduling so there's a lot of
things we do in a brick-and-mortar as
well but you don't have to but you do
online scheduling and online
documentation so using the Google Docs
for EMR so if you don't have it or
haven't watched it
watch the Google Docs or EMR bonus
that's in the cash PT blueprint and that
will show you how to use how to do it
for low cost and something can be done
anywhere it works great with the
Chromebook or iPad and so in this way
basically your whole office is online
and mobile you don't have any paper so
your receipts you know you can use I
think online accounting and receipts
using quickbooks online so you may have
to generate a super bill in a little bit
different way but in that sense all you
do is you just get on your your little
computer and you you copy and paste it
or you fill it out on the computer and
you email it to the patient and you can
even input your signature on there if
you need that the signature that I use
on my receipt is just a photo image of
the signature I'm billing and
documentation before I go on let me just
see what us in the comments are so yeah
so Tonya said people love having the
convenience and she's gone to several
offices now and yeah Brian says oh but
just opens up another demographic of
people to treat that I completely agree
with that
yeah so Tonya mentions and this is
something I'm going to mention and want
to talk about is I've considered raising
the cost to cover the lower number of
patients since its convenience or maybe
calculate in the distance not sure how
to approach
that but that may be covered today yeah
so if I don't go over that I will I will
talk about that and yeah so we're going
to talk about your other question to
Tonya about the dream people in their
homes etc I might get to that so let's
talk about some billing and
documentation are there too many
differences not really but there's
there's a really there's a major one
that you need to be aware of on the
super bills if you are treating a
patient in their own or their location
use office code 12
right now like for a brick-and-mortar
practice from my practice it's office
code 11 and that's that I think that's
the default number that I have in the
templates in the cash PT toolkit that's
on it's even in the blog post on my
website about creating receipts for cash
based practice so the code you want to
use in a home practice is 12 if you're
doing a mix of both what I recommend is
creating two different templates for the
super bill one with a twelve and one
with 11 that would be the easiest or
depending on how the system you use just
chit make sure you change that each time
when you see someone at home where you
see someone in the office that needs to
be changed and the other thing you want
to be sure to do is document where the
treatment took place so this isn't
something I do on a daily basis I don't
document that the treatment took place
here in our practice because it always
does but if you're out and about
document where the treatment took place
and not just what time but also put who
else was around so was there secretary
outside you know as you know was their
administrative assistant around you know
were you in the park you know at the
park and you know put the street names
or at the gym you know and also put like
you know the owner was present you know
I would document all that stuff because
that's just gonna give like more points
of reference for what's happened during
that treatment period of time in case
anything arises in the future you know
put who the you know so-and-so was
treated so that I'll do this when I see
adolescents for minors I'll say you know
the patient was accompanied by their
grandpa
and put their name where patients coming
by their parent in the visit because I
want you know I just want to kind of see
why a Hummer CMA a cover my ass you know
and just make sure that the deaths taken
care of so just document your location
as well location and who is there and
then you just can generate an email
super bill a receipt and email patients
you can you can create a Google Drive or
a Google Doc in Drive and share it with
them or email them the link there's a
lot of different ways to do that you
don't need paper you can pretty much go
paperless you don't need a home printer
they've been print and mail it to people
or give to people there's a lot of ways
to get around all that and like I said
use a cloud-based documentation system
and right now my favorites Google suite
some people are using Microsoft Office
or even Dropbox just make sure they sign
in BAA and I don't know that Dropbox
does that I know Microsoft Office suite
does okay marketing strategies for a
mobile business just write something
down and I just thought of something and
I think I lost it I'll come back to it
though you guys getting this so far all
right some marketing strategies for a
mobile practice Facebook I mean just
think about it like this is the same as
some of the other stuff but you know
what we're doing is we're gonna take
this stuff and we're gonna use some
Facebook posts we're gonna do online
email marketing you want to feature
people on your blog so you know you can
feature different locations so feature
the CrossFit gym that you treat it you
know so people in the CrossFit gym know
that you're treating their I have a
friend and he has been a PTA in a gym
and you know for like six or seven
months and this summer I got three or
four people came to see me who work in
that gym and there's
reasons they're coming to see me but
they had no clue that there was a PT
working there and I you know I didn't to
be fair like I didn't say hey did you
know that John's working he's doing PT
at strive but you know because they're
in my office to see me I don't know all
the reasons but I know that they just
don't people there don't know that he
exists and not because he's not trying
but it's like it takes a long time to
get in town in front of all the
trainer's front of the people and the
gyms and get them to pay attention so
blog features are a great way to do that
you've got to do that I I didn't Asajj
and a gym before and the owners were
horrible about letting people know that
I was there I had no business and I had
no control over the marketing or
anything either so community workshops
these are great so you want to do
community workshops in either partner
locations where you're treating even any
of the businesses let's say your patient
is has some kind of influence in their
business say hey look what kind of
workshop can I offer here for the
employees that we can do and you because
you're if you're already there and you
can treat an employee downstairs or
three cubicles over yeah that maximizes
your time of course email marketing this
is huge and and like we go over that in
in some of these other modules but this
one knows like email marketing these all
still work search engine optimization
marketing and and personal thank-you
letters and even word-of-mouth so to me
word-of-mouth is email marketing because
that's how I generate email
word-of-mouth referrals I just wanna
make sure it's not on here the list here
and that you guys know the word of mouth
is huge and send a personal thank-you
letter to everyone but I think the the
word of mouth piece ties into the next
screen which should be we know so I'll
come back to the word-of-mouth use but
it ties into this security issues that
the Tanya brought up is like how do I
know you know nervous about going to
people's homes and I'm gonna come back
to that in a couple slides but that's
great like so if you do all
word-of-mouth marketing it's harder and
you don't get as much traction as fast
as putting things out the public
that's what can keep you so that your
one or two degrees of separation from
your patient and it can take a little
bit longer to build up if that's all
you're relying on but that can create a
barrier of security that you know who
people are and they're they're not like
totally crazy people etc let me just
talk about some search engine
optimization stuff one of the I would
say one of the cons shows up here so
like your Google business page it can't
list a physical location so it has to be
a service area business so if you're
writing this down write this down a
service area business is how Google will
list you if you do not have a permanent
location and you can still get a
business page there's a while where you
couldn't unless you had a physical
location so make sure you sign up for
Google a service area business when you
go and get listed on internet
directories if you don't have a physical
location it might be a little bit harder
to get listed in certain places
especially even on testimonials and
review sites but you do want to get
listed so one of the ways you can get a
physical address as to get a Pio box and
I would do that I wouldn't use your home
address as your mailing address if
you're gonna do a mobile business but I
would get a Pio box somewhere at the
post office or the UPS Store if you use
the UPS Store you get a physical address
then no that's not a physical address
that really will work for Google Google
will kick it out and still make you in
baby penalize you but first some of the
internet directories testimonies and
review sites you can kind of use that
but you kind of can't because if it's
listing you as like here's your location
where you do business don't list that
but you want to get but you want to use
that address for correspondence etc so
screening patients this goes into that
security piece you know how do you how
do you double-check that someone's not
like crazy or their intentions or you
know true and valid and a big part of
that
the questions we ask you know how'd you
hear about our practice like who'd you
hear about our practice from and they
said I just found it on Google okay well
great but you know I read your reviews
and I have these problems and this isn't
I don't think this is really an issue in
physical therapy like it is in massage
therapy and which is can you know my
background and where I come from there's
a bigger issue in massage therapy but
there is an issue that we have to talk
about and just be mindful of so if you
don't know where someone's coming from
you own you know and if it the
conversation doesn't go well or you're
like this is a little weird refer them
to someone else you know like you know
call my friends or greens for physical
therapy they'll take care of you they
treat this all day long and this is you
know and you need to call them one of
the other things you can do is you can
ask people you know to get a physician's
referral or have you seen a physician
and yes so I'm so okay well then let me
get back and I'm gonna get in touch with
them first and I'll get back in touch
with you about you know setting things
up and you just give the physician or
the PA a call and find out you know yes
is this really an issue for the people
have you seen them you know recently
they called about physical therapy and I
just wanted to check in with you about
it and this can be a great opportunity
to connect with someone else and you
know spend some you know get your name
in front of them and it's not about
getting referrals from them as much as
you know getting them on your team you
know and and and just even saying okay
great thank you for the conversation you
can send them more patients I mean it's
a great way to interact and and just
kind of create that environment the team
thing that doesn't always exist
everywhere one of the other things you
can do
OUP's is make sure you know just meet
your patients at least the first couple
times in there if you don't want to go
to their home you feel uncomfortable
going their home go to their office
their gym or a park some kind of public
space or / you know public / private
space is kind of private in their office
or their office might have a gym there
their apartment building might have a
gym rather than going into their
apartment room you know their apartment
or their condo go to the gym and the
building
and then oh yeah so before I finish we
go to Q&A there are a couple other
thoughts so and from some of the
questions and I'll just put this on the
Q&A piece so part of this is is I think
Tanya asked she's considered raising the
cost to cover the lower number of
patients and there are two ways to do
this and is to is to yeah add extra so
say okay it costs 150 bucks to see me
for physical therapy but for me to come
to your house it cost one hundred and
ninety dollars so this is for someone
who maybe has a physical location and is
doing some traveling or doing some home
home health PT where you say this is
what I would do is I'd say okay it's 147
to come see me in the clinic and there's
a fifty dollar travel fee so when I come
see you in your house or your office
it's one ninety seven people are gonna
pay that and it can be it should be
based basically it should be based on
travel time but I wouldn't bring it down
to the minute I would say you know if it
takes me if it's gonna take me two hours
from the time I leave my office and
treat you and come back to my office
you really should be earning two hours
worth of payment at the same time you
know because it's your - that's two
hours worth of your time going to see
that patient at the same time that's
really hard to do because you know then
you're charging them 300 bucks so a $50
travel fee I think is you know
appropriate it can be twenty five dollar
travel fee it depends on the traffic
takes you an hour to get there it should
be a hundred bucks but actually issue
based on a reasonable amount of time it
doesn't need to necessarily double your
cost but if you're doing brick and
mortar and travel but if all you're
doing is travel it doesn't have to
double your cost but it should be worth
it and maybe a little bit more but also
consider that if your plan is to
eventually have one location then if you
get that location you're going to lower
your rate
I wouldn't I still wouldn't do that I
would just keep my rate the same be like
look now I've got an office and it's the
same price so if you're only traveling I
wouldn't create a travel fee I just
create one fee and say this is my price
to come to you unless you know within a
half-hour of traveling and then anything
outside of a half hour 20 minutes of
traveling I charge an extra fee that way
you're still getting what you worth and
what you earned and then you don't lower
your rates based on the travel fee when
you get a brick-and-mortar because when
you get a brick-and-mortar you've got a
higher overhead so I hope that covers
some of those aspects and I know there's
a ton of stuff and I'm like oh as I'm
giving this presentation I'm like well I
should have put a slide in about this
and that but there's a lot of different
things two aspects to this and a lot of
them once you start looking it at what
it takes it's really simple but then
there's a lot of little differences like
the fees and etc so let me go back to
the next question so oh yeah so the
office code the office code and a couple
questions from Tanya and Angie about it
the office code is a code you put on the
super bill and yes and Paula the office
codes are on the the super bill in the
cash bTW toolkit it's just it's not a
whole document it's like it's just one
little line that says office code 11 so
if you're doing a treatment at patient's
house you put 1212 means like home
health 11 means outpatient physical
therapy and you can look them up online
I think they're on the CMS website but
almost all insurances use these and
Tanya asks do you hand write letters yes
I hand write letters right now my
assistant is handwriting letters but I
hand wrote every one of them every
thank-you letter for seven years or
maybe longer because I was writing when
I was doing massage therapy so it's I've
been doing that for 18 years so I've
been doing thank-you notes for a long
long time so I write a personal
thank-you note to every person who
refers a new patient
there's another strategy you can do of
writing a personal thank-you note to
each patient when you discharge them you
know and I mean this this is a great
personal touch Andrea asked if I have a
physical therapy location and do mobile
do you have a suggestion which choose I
would do both it depends on what you
want to do Aaron lab our I don't want to
do mobile because I was doing both and
then I got so busy that I didn't really
have time in my week to start going out
to people's homes because I was gonna
you know lose money or be able to see
less patients but I could say to people
look I'm gonna come I can come to your
home and I come on Tuesdays and
Thursdays I go to people's homes and I
charge 185 for that Monday Wednesday
Friday if you want to come to the office
it's 1:27 you know it's it's it can be
two different different service to go to
someone's home so you can certainly do
both and if that's what you like
I certainly do it and we'll we'll a
physician's office where doctor's office
really give you that info you know they
will I mean all you got to do is call
and say hey look I your patient has
called us for physical therapy and I
just wanted to you know let you know
that we're gonna you know I'm planning
on seeing them next week for a physical
therapy evaluation do you have any you
know this is Aaron from the our physical
therapy have you seen the patient
recently and you know what's their
condition they said they have back pain
and they may say oh no we can't you know
we haven't seen them in the years we're
likely they say yeah we just saw him
last week and refer them for physical
therapy can we get you their notes or we
saw them three or four months ago for
back pain we did an injection and I told
him they needed surgery right away to
fix their herniated disc and they looked
at me like I was crazy and you know
basically what you're calling is nothing
to get like information on what's wrong
with the patient but just to get a vote
of confidence from the physician's
office the PA the physician the nurse
that this person is
a you know competent person who's not
dangerous for you to go to their home
and treat them or to go to their office
and treat them that's really what the
purpose of that phone call is they may
need to sign a release of personal info
but likely they have you know so this is
the thing is if if someone's contacted
you about doing physical therapy with
you they've they've set an intention to
be your patient and they've been a
patient of someone else then as
providers it's okay and it's not a
violation of even HIPPA policy to confer
together about a patient's case let's
see okay so I think Jia is asking about
about liability insurance in Victoria
asks yeah and her policy with APA covers
her wherever I go and that's my policy
of the American professional association
covers me wherever I am as a physical
therapist no matter whether I'm treating
in my clinic location out in a classroom
at a gym etc as long as I'm providing a
physical therapy service doing business
you know basically on behalf of eronel
our and with our physical therapy that
covered I'm even covered teaching yoga
at the yoga studio because that's what
we do you know our practice is the
physical therapy massage and yoga so and
it didn't cost me any extra let's see oh
yeah so great questions guys keep them
coming
Tonya would you put a minimum I do have
a clients that are ten minutes away
versus my people they're 45 minutes away
you mean a minimum charge I think he may
be I'm gonna I'm not clear on what
you're asking
let's see I'm gonna I'll come back to
that or just rephrase it in a different
way
yeah so Bryan asked these guys says he's
got specific area he covers only
depending on how light his schedule is
on stretches area but his schedule is
full he'll stay closer to home and I
think that's a big thing about
scheduling patients is finding a way to
finding a way to what's up y'all
finding a way to schedule people that's
convenient so let's say big places you
know big areas I'm gonna say Phoenix or
even you know Atlanta or you can
schedule different neighborhoods on
different days that's convenient too and
that makes your job easier makes it so
you can see people to have to drive all
the way across LA in one day you know or
maybe you just stay in Hollywood or you
know San Francisco is small but you know
it's hard to get around town all day
long so you just stay over in one little
area for the day and go to a different
area and yeah you definitely have to
account for traffic you have to account
for distance and so you know as a mobile
PT you know a lot of times your patience
you know that maybe you'll be late but
you can't put you know it's gonna be
hard to put an hour in between each
person and say okay I'm not can't get
paid for see that's where you have to
adjust your prices and charges so that
it makes up for not having a physical
location for you you know that's the
important the bottom line is that you
earn enough money to eat and feed your
kids and drive the car so you've got an
expensive you know auto expense
you've got expenses of eating and living
then they have to be covered so if you
can go only see three people in one day
because not because you're not getting
enough patients calling you but because
you're going you know an hour an hour
and in an hour and you and you're done
DRI you've spent more time driving than
treating patients it might be time to
reconsider a strategy so what days are
you seeing people that might be okay
first if that's all you've got but if
you're busy and you have a lot of people
calling you need to start scheduling
them in different places so this this
gym and basically you're saying instead
of you know CrossFit gym a on Mondays
and B on Thursdays you're staying
neighborhood a on Mondays and they would
be on Thursday so you can say I'm over
there on Mondays and Wednesdays and I'm
over there on Tuesday Tuesday Thursdays
you know what what day works best for
you which location
yes you have to account for traffic if
you're building Holley ass if you're
building Medicare and the patient is not
homebound would you still use office
code 12
that's a great question that I can't
answer that because I'm not a Medicare
provider and never have been likely I
would I don't think that if Medicare may
not pay because they may not pay for
home services but the only reason you're
gonna bill Medicare is if you're a
Medicare provider and your billing
company people should be able to answer
that I can't answer I can't really
answer that there might be another one
where it might not be a covered service
if they're not homebound you know if
they're if you're non par then that
might not matter versus being a
participating provider
yeah Brian just offered some helpful
information he says he gives himself 30
minutes between patients and that that's
what minimum I would do even you know
unless they're next door to each other
and you can schedule that and he puts
more flexible patients at the end of the
day so people that are like yeah it's
okay if you show up at 4 or 4:30 it
doesn't really matter they can get end
of the day appointments because you
might be running late and you know that
would be the worst thing to do is have
someone who's really strict needs a 5
o'clock it has to be somewhere at 6:15
and you're not able to show up till 5:30
and either have to cancel them but they
don't get their treatment so yeah so
Tonya this time you said you know $50
travel fee is steep for someone close by
it's not steep if you're coming to their
house and that's convenient saves them
$50 or saves them $100 just think you
got someone who's got you know mom or
dad and who has three kids the kids are
let's say they're near 9 10 and 12 and
they can kind of take care of themselves
you can go to their house be 30 45
minutes of PT with them show them
something I do exercises some hands-on
care and they can still watch their kids
or you have to put their kids in daycare
or take them to the stay and play get a
babysitter and it come to you then $50
is is you know a wash and they don't
have to drive a half hour to get your 20
minutes to get you put there
minutes to get the kids somewhere 20
minutes to get you or babysitter to come
in so you know but if you feel like that
steep you can say okay look it's it's
it's x4 within 30 minutes and then above
30 minutes there's an extra fee or you
can mark it to 15 and 30 minutes or 15
miles and 30 miles but people should
know that like it's not like okay today
it took me 45 minutes in traffic
charging you an extra 50 bucks it should
be I more like when I was a bike
messenger we had kind of districts okay
here's where I live okay the travel time
for me from Centrepointe from my home to
you as 45 minutes so that visits gonna
cost you 165 bucks
the person that lives next door to me is
gonna cost them 115 dollars I don't
necessarily you know need to tell the
person that's 165 that hey you know what
coming out there you know if you came to
me and be 115 because they're not coming
to your house they're for me to come
there this is what it costs and you can
say look you know it's a 115 treatment
fee and a $45 travel for your fifty
dollar travel fee for the person next to
you you say look you know it's gonna be
115 if someone's twenty minutes away and
your fee within 30 you know 30 minute
drive is 115 it's okay that's one it's
115 to come see you but as soon as you
passed like a certain barrier or two
barriers so you can have zone 1 zone 2
zone 3 and/or neighborhood you know it
versus scheduling neighborhood a and
neighborhood B does that make sense so
it's you can create distance and zones
and they don't have to be a perfect
circle so like in San Francisco anything
up on a hill was it was at least zone 2
he had to be two blocks up a hill and
you know it was zone 2 for us on bikes
most of the offices buildings were down
we're not Vaughn Telus anyways so or it
was beyond a certain distance but it
wasn't the same based on the geographic
area so it might be it might take me 10
15 minutes to go two miles in this
direction but to go two miles northwest
weather
not a highway that goes definitely I
have to go way out of my way to get
there that could take me 45 minutes in a
big city because there's not a direct
route and so that might be a different
you know fee but don't get bogged down
in fees I would say pick one fee and
stick to it you can make it a travel fee
or not if you're only doing traveling I
would stick with one fee and then maybe
like an extraordinary distance fee you
know so make your fee high enough that
you're happy to travel most within a
half-hour and then just be like this is
my fee and if for some reason you know
you live X far away okay you know this
is out of my way and not you know but to
come to you it's gonna be this and you
just tell people on a case-by-case basis
what their fee is gonna be let's see
let's see to the Tanya said usually my
patients are not urgent I've clumped
people that are in the same area and
they were pretty flexible about it and
understood yeah exactly I mean I think
that's awesome so that's I think let's
see if there was you know there was one
other thing that I think I had in my
mind to add to this but it's escaped
mean I'm pretty sure we've covered all
the big points do you guys have other
questions about home based or like yeah
like home health based cash practice I
think the big points are the billing
like the office code 12
the just deciding if this is what you're
gonna do or not in creating a system for
it creating like this safety protocol so
when people call you if they sound
strange and weird you know just refer
them elsewhere if they're like yeah
Martha your other patients sent me she's
my best friend it was like a no-brainer
and most of times it's it's a no-brainer
but the you know so I think those are
the those are like the biggest issues
that you may have but I think this is
such an awesome model and even that
model of not necessarily traveling to
people's homes and offices but being in
multiple locations in the city and not
necessarily
on bass or having multiple home bases is
really just a huge model because you can
you can I'm just writing on an idea you
can you can make it work for such a low
overhead and it can be a great
jumping-off point I did an interview of
a guy Brian Campbell on my blog he lives
here in Raleigh nearby and he started in
a couple CrossFit gyms until he got
patients he got some cash flow and then
he opened his own place which is really
awesome the idea that a thing that I
forgot to mention I wanted to say is
okay what's the equipment that you're
that you own and you're bringing places
and it doesn't have to be huge you can
have a portable massage table so you can
get you know so in your car you can have
your needles or your hands on stuff you
can have some of your extra little bands
and balls you just have like a couple of
boxes of them in the trunk you can put
it portable treatment table in there I
would still get a really nice one but I
would maybe go a little bit smaller and
lighter special you're gonna go up and
down a lot of stairs or you're not like
a CrossFit athlete and you're gonna lift
5,000 pounds 5,000 times in two minutes
but after light makes some really nice
light tables and you can get the ones
that are just a little narrower and it
takes a couple pounds off the table and
most clients don't notice you can also
take a great thing of takers like a
couple dumbbells or kettlebells so if
you're into weight training you're like
gosh I don't you but I don't have a rack
you know I don't have all the equipment
I need I don't have the pulley thing all
you need are some bands and you know two
or three kettlebells in the trunk of
your car and you can pretty much you get
a workout take and that stuff in and
your patients can do pretty much
anything with just a few pieces of
equipment so what's the lightest
portable table I've heard of I think
there's an 18 pound portable table it's
gonna be aluminum just don't get like
the cheapy cheap ones cuz I've got a
cheap cheap one for traveling it's
you know it's like the vinyls warring
out the table fell at one point one of
the little buttons was not that great
and it's wobbly and get on it it's like
the astral light doesn't do that and I
think even my table with the extra
Baltic birch is only 20 something pounds
if you go to Costco and get the 200
ollar table it can be like 35 40 pounds
but I think you can get one for like 18
pounds the lighter you go them they
might be a little bit more expensive but
it's usually thinner wood base and
narrower and maybe a little shorter you
can even get like the live like this
little travel chiropractic tables which
you're like yay I don't know if you guys
can see how a thin that is yeah thin you
know and it's just for a couple cracks
and snaps you can certainly do some
needling and some enough are on there it
might not be the most comfortable but
I'm certainly easy to haul around the
other thing you can get is if you take a
table up paces is a bag and or a like a
table trolley or cart so it's like a
little folding luggage you know those
old metal things they used to carry
people carry luggage on before they put
wheels on everyone's luggage you get one
of those for your massage table and that
way you can get up and down stairs and
in Natick buildings really easily you
just have to get it off of you're out of
your trunk and that's probably one of
the best investments you can you can
make so O'Brien off thank you for the
other tip you say the other trick is to
do visits in a loop as best as possible
so I guess you're just connecting the
dots in a loop rather than big zag and I
think that's awesome yeah so anything
else we have time for questions not
related to mobile practice as well as if
you guys are having any other have any
other questions or challenges or
struggles in your practice you know
marketing billing setting up etcetera
just put it in the chat box
you
allergies get into me this this week
okay yeah it's a time who says yeah
she's got she's got a light massage
table
it works has the carrying case shoulder
strap side pocket for bolster and then
her my tool bag and I travel back to the
fits needles folders mobilization rolls
etc that's awesome
yeah I mean some days I just want to get
like a little travel kit of some things
and just be like hey you know here's my
little bag on the mobile PT I can do
whatever I want anywhere I saw like a
Jet Li movie where he was like uh you
guys know Jet Li is like kung foo
martial artist guy he was also like this
acupuncturist he had this little bag of
needles it was like this little leather
bag of needles need whip it out like
throw them at people and stick me places
and paralyze them and house it was kind
of weird I'm like well I want one of
those that'd be fine let's see yeah so
Tanya online scheduling this is your
question like what's the best online
scheduling or what's the one you should
use let's see what's
points you give to people to help
convince cash basis the way to go Danny
great question okay let's go back to the
mindset on this one for a moment it's
not about convincing people that cash
basis the way to go separate cash based
and payment from how do you want to
treat a patient so when you call your
physician's office do you want them to
only talk to you about billing because
most PT practices the first thing is
going to happen when you call they're
they're gonna say what's your insurance
what's your date of birth or would you
rather have someone talk to you about
what the problem is
how long has it been a problem what are
you struggling with what things are you
unable to do now that you'd like to be
doing what is it that you can no longer
do or what can you no longer do as well
as you would like you mean and if you
ask questions to get to the reason that
person is calling you now versus two
months ago or last week or five years
ago
when you talk to them as a real person
as a caring professional you're they're
gonna going to see the difference
between what you're providing and what
they can get anywhere else so how do you
convince people you don't convince them
to use cash you overwhelm them with like
value and awesomeness that where they
understand from the conversation with
you that they're gonna get a service
from you that they cannot get anywhere
else you know some people are gonna go
try to use their insurance but then one
of things you can ask as well so is
insurance the primary factor in you
deciding where to get physical therapy
or is the value and quality of service
that you want to receive and most people
can be like I want I want the higher
quality higher value service you know I
don't care about insurance but people
are people say oh it's insurance I have
to use my insurance okay well is it
something like is that the number one
thing that you need to decide on or are
you concerned at all with
quality of care and whether you see a
physical therapist or not oh of course I
want to see a physical therapist and are
you concerned about how long you might
see a physical therapist you know do you
want to see someone for 15 minutes or an
hour one-on-one or in a group you know
and people that what they don't know and
and so what you have to say then you say
okay well what's your understanding of
how physical therapy can help or what
your understanding of physical therapy
and and how it can help you solve this
problem so we don't talk about insurance
yet we talk about you know what do
people want and expect what is their
understanding because their
understanding might be that you're just
gonna fix my alignment and give me some
give me some leg lifts and hot packs and
I'll be fine
now so um I think that's a huge I mean
that's a huge piece so yeah I mean I
think it's a great question the question
you asked is a question that everyone
has and just kind of explore some of
these other questions check out and it
should I know it's on the Facebook page
and I have the intention of putting it
in the membership website but most
people should have it is to my Medicare
was it the do you take my insurance
training I did a video on do you take my
insurance also did Medicare video at the
same time so I did it
do you take my insurance call training
check out that and if you don't have it
you can't find an email me I'll send it
to you might have it up on my screen and
my intention is to add it into the
membership website if I haven't and I
know I've posted it in the Facebook
group so you can search the Facebook
group for that watch that video
definitely okay
and Andrea any thoughts on getting
around the dry needling laws and watch
some tan it currently isn't allowed for
cash pay patients wondering if I can
come up with some sort of loophole you
know what I know it's a big issue and
I've talked to Austin and Paul of what's
their business called my otech dry
needles and they've got to practice in
Seattle called I think doctors of
physical therapy or doctors of PT you
might check in with them and see what
they're doing because that's their
business model is dry needling and I've
talked to them about it and they're like
we don't know what we're gonna do but I
think they're still i think when i
talked to paul in october and i know
things are changing rapidly they were
still needling patients in october and
it's a gray area and i think part of
that similar to medicare it's like in a
state where it's not where it's a gray
area there's risk tolerance that you
have to say okay what's best for my
patients and what's best for me and fall
on the side of that i don't know any
ways to get around it because it's a
prat it's a scope of practice limitation
rather than a billing limitation and
when your scope of practice is limited
and it's tough - in North Carolina my
scope of practice is limited to image I
can't manipulate the spine without a
physician's referral put in there by the
chiropractor's 25 30 years ago however I
can mobilize a spine I can you know it
doesn't prohibit a cavitation so I can
put people in position have them breathe
in and out and get a cavitation with
immobilization so I don't do like high
velocity thrusts I don't really need if
I could I don't really need to do a high
velocity thrusts 85 90 percent of time
anyways to get the result to that that I
need no I'm not sure exactly if that is
that is something that there's a
workaround for you guys but you know I
doubt it it seems like this slide is
every time I talk to them this slides
going down down down - no dry needling
which kind of stinks the other way to
get around it is to do some other
training and trigger point therapy
mouthwash release other hands-on
training techniques even instrument
assisted soft tissue mobilization etc
other ways to get the tissue to react
the way that you get it with a needle
maybe not always in the same way but not
much less effective I mean there's not a
lot of things that that I want to work
on Rome like aha if I had a needle
if I had a needle I might not like
either
so as for so Tonya says for cash pay
she's got a some resource on her website
awesome thank you and yes Andrea says
they can't really manipulate there
either so they do quick stretches yeah I
was like grade five moves verses high
velocity so I think Tonya something
about online scheduling and I didn't see
the clarification I think like online
scheduling there's a lot of different
ways to do it if you're using Google
EMR you can use Google Drive I mean that
Google Drive Google Calendar you can
incorporate that within take cue so I
would do in take you for the intake
forms use their scheduling I use square
you can use square to schedule you can
straight up use Google Google Calendar
to schedule you can use something like
set more you know there's a lot of
different things that will integrate
with Google Calendar and they'll get on
your phone what you want is a way to
pick up your cell phone and type in and
schedule a patient on your cell phone
like mind/body online - yeah so Tonya
mind-body online is is great but it's a
huge hunk it's like a freight train
compared to like a little Porsche 911
mind/body online which like calendly
would be the Porsche 911
you know the stripped-down easy to use
quick version of online scheduling
whereas my body online is great if
you're gonna do group classes and you
want to track other teachers teaching
stuff but it's a really big program to
use if you're just doing online
scheduling it's got a lot of other
features to it that make it great for
practices with multiple therapists and
group classes and
packages and memberships etc yeah so
there's there are a lot of these other
programs also allow patients to log in
online and schedule so intake queue does
that calendly does that a lot of these
online programs can do that there's a
way to even do it in Google it's not
it's now calendar directly it's not that
easy okay any last questions before we
go I've got patients this afternoon and
I know you guys have have work to get
done this has been awesome and great
participation great questions today so
yeah so you know you know just leave any
last thoughts or chats and questions in
the chat box Tonya said she wasn't she
wasn't you're not sure if it's gonna
work in your model because you have
multiple locations no set schedule I
would say you frought you might find
that it helps to have a set schedule at
a certain point especially when you get
busy enough and at least know a week or
two out so you can tell people hey
here's my set schedule or maybe it's the
first person that schedules they're on
that Tuesday you just try to clump them
together and then you find like a system
that works and there's certain point
even in my practice you know I had to
set about I got so busy rows and I was
having patients come in the morning in
the afternoon and it like I didn't have
a boundary for when I saw patients and
when I didn't and that's one thing that
they can lead to burnout is if you don't
set boundaries around scheduling so just
make sure that as you grow your practice
as things get busier all of you guys you
start creating boundaries and these are
time boundaries distance boundaries it
might be that you know what I really
want to work with that patient but
they're so far away and takes me away
from so many other people that I have to
set a boundary and say look I'm not
gonna travel there I had to do that in
California I was treating a couple over
in Oakland and I was living in San
Francisco and I started getting busy
enough and I was like look I just I
can't come to Oakland one day you know
one day a week just to treat the two of
you or just to treat you know one of you
you know it's just it's not right now
I've got a I've got a location now and I
just have to make this decision and it
basically meant that they were no longer
gonna be my
but I had to make that decision for the
health of my business so awesome so
thank you guys so much for being here if
you have any follow-up questions you
know start a post in the Facebook group
and just post your question post your
thoughts you know post some pictures and
of your business of your practice
location of and post some of your
successes and wins would love to hear
back from you guys in the Facebook group
for the cash bt blueprint and let our
consulting this is Aaron thank you guys
so much for being here I am so stoked to
be working with you and helping you
achieve success in your practice have a
great Wednesday
