[Music]
hey this ductile Bower with the bow or
consulting.com and today I'm outside my
friend Chris Anthony his office is to
try synergy chiropractic he's dr.
Anthony to a lot of people and dr.
Anthony has a 100% cash based
chiropractic practice so what I'm gonna
do today is give you a little tour of
his practice we're gonna meet dr.
Anthony and see what's inside so let's
let's go right up to the front front
door sees a nice condo location office
condos there he is see you man all right
it's Chris video recording you all ready
yeah I catch me we're gonna go right
inside Maureen I'm video recording this
is most important for the office so
Chris want to introduce this to Maureen
tell us what she does for you and I want
you to give me a tour of your office
okay Maureen is our helper
extraordinaire scheduling billing
patient concierge you solve all my
problems people not every office should
expect to have a Maureen that's
impossible I don't have a marine you
don't yeah you it's a decision of
whether a cash practice would go with a
helper or not right and it is awesome if
you can find the right person but it
would be rare to find the right person
who understands how to present your
practice right right so Maureen what's
the most important things you you do I
think it's just the communication
there's the communication with the
patients as to what they're they can
and expect when they are patients here
and then communicating what he does and
giving him the information that he needs
also no matter whether it's patient care
here in the office circuits you know
outside the office right and you answer
the phones when people call and what do
you when people call and say do you take
my insurance how do you how do you
respond I let them know that we are a
cash practice and that we don't
participate with any insurance companies
it's their choice whether they would
like to call their insurance company and
find out if they will pay for
out-of-network care I also assure them
that because we do not sign them up for
three times a week forever like
insurance based practices do that they
should anticipate being resolved in
three to five visits and it's an
investment in themselves awesome that's
great and you guys take a deposit we
keep a call for the first visit and we
do yes having people not show or cancel
at the last minute it's just not doable
with limited time and we have it in the
office mm-hmm and we take a half half up
front on a credit card they pay the
other half when they come and they get
their paid receipt when they come in
their care and that makes the biggest
that makes the biggest thing that they
are coming not not thinking oh I can pay
a $20 copay if I don't like it fine they
come in and they're going they're
committed they ask the right questions I
give them a lot of information all right
yeah they see the office start with this
room in it this is my office I used to
do more consults one on one when you pay
might not do that directly in the
treatment room the best part of the
office is a place to sit read and think
oh you know it is not necessary but it
is helpful night so all you really need
is a computer a chair and paperwork yep
that's it all right let's follow you
don't know our reading room is
intentionally small because as a high
quality low volume chiropractic office
we do not need places for a lot of
people to sit that's one thing I would
say the most catch practices as you
probably don't need a large reading
before yeah the two most important
things about a cash practice in my
opinion are number one a great table and
number two excellent lighting this is
our rehab room so you have either some
exercise equipment some mirrors on like
three side in here because I can show
people their posture a one-sided mirror
would be just fine yeah yeah you never
talk for years there are three ways to
compete in business you can compete on
price you can compete on customer
service you can compete on product
quality
don't pick all three pick one maybe two
in our office we've chosen product
quality like you believe that myofascial
release is an awesome tool a
chiropractor so I add to that
manipulation I do a lot of neural
flossing traveling work so you'll see my
practices model off of low flow an
attempt at high quality right right and
how long you three patients 45 minutes
for repeats and I were to have four new
it's that's the highest and longest I've
ever heard of right it's just what I
like to do I bet you could have my level
of quality in 30 minutes
mm-hmm for what I do that's what why are
your work in an hour is even more
involved than what I usually do dance
patients but for 45 minutes I'm able to
do what I need to do right and as
Maureen said the average about three
visits per case awesome that's great
this is our main treatment room we're
very excited about a great lighting we
have dimmable LEDs and this is the table
that I like it's an oak works it's got
the nicest softest leather you can get
and it doesn't have a lot of gadgetry
allows me to do the work I need to do
right you may or may not see I use the
anti light therapy that's the only
physiotherapy annex that I use and I
don't know how I'm in are uncommon that
is but it's a tool I really like a lot
mm-hmm
here's our overflow room this week
called massage therapy room occasionally
had friends for massage therapists you
need to borrow a room for a couple hours
and we love supporting the community
yeah of workers but otherwise use it as
our overflow room for the ten percent of
the time that we have to patients in the
office at the same time usually that's
because somebody's in a whole lot of
pain right and they go getting that day
this is a bonus room that we don't even
use for good tour dates mm-hmm and this
is our kitchen oh yeah this is my
standing desk not a necessity but really
awesome right so if I need to step away
and do patient notes and finally our
awesome bathroom
oh yeah and the beadboard is pretty cool
the paint is consistent throughout the
office and the ceiling if you got all
that is kind of a special texture okay
for the lighting nerds out there every
with 3,000 Kelvin
entire office means special order that
from Georgia and you didn't start here
right no no as she opened 8 minutes away
in High Point right Tina in 12 minutes
per foot office uh-huh for seven years
okay this is 1315 okay um I would
estimate that I could accomplish what I
need to do in about five hundred square
feet
I had to if I was solo without awesome
more Intel right we're starting out
starting to us you want to keep the blue
Griffin I mean your first office was
awesome one treatment room 1 entryway
opening area yeah combo paper work area
that is a really wise way to go right it
would be tough to only have one room but
you could do it if your paperwork was
really clean mm-hmm as a cash practice
PT or Cairo you would want at least one
treatment room in one other room yeah we
started we had the treatment room we had
a little waiting office area yes anyway
less than 5 grams cookies made 400
square yeah so that's a fine way to
start if I knew a cash doctor who wanted
to start all they would need is that
bonus room a little bit of office area
and you could need to practice for your
career right right so was the number one
reason you need to cash based practice
versus a traditional chiropractic model
um there is a short but important list
if I had to pick one because they allows
me to serve humans the way I believe
they need to be served yeah that's it
what's your motive free even the freedom
to treat people with the best of mine oh
yeah awesome and what's the number one
piece of advice you have for a
chiropractor who wants to start a cash
based practice for well firk because I
love my PT friends Yeah right
Tyra or PT I would say to develop the
best skills you know how to develop
don't worry about leveraging them too
hard because great skills are rare
mm-hmm and be very low overhead so I
guess two components
yeah develop a great sense of your
skills for you and I that's a version of
myofascial release mm-hmm if somebody
else has created something else develop
that skill and then be very low overhead
yeah I ran an office for the first few
years on less than 20,000 a year over
yeah awesome
anything else we had yes I hated you for
your work in the cash PTU realm I'm glad
you're encouraging other Docs of young
and experienced to bring their skills to
humans awesome awesome thanks one more
thing if someone was to find you online
where do they find you learn more about
your environment rice energy duck or TR
i sy any rgy and you're on twitter
occasionally dr. anthony rizzo dr.
anthony wall and duck or doctor and
femur pretty awesome yeah awesome on pts
on twitter so i think i'm ready to go
get some lunch how about you let's get
pretty alright
[Music]
