[Music]
what we're talking about is the sales
script for closing patience and when
we're talking with patience we need to
get the transformational benefits the
number one thing the leading there's
been why they're calling and what they
really want once we get to that point of
the conversation it's it's not a okay
can I tell you what we do and talk about
okay we do one-on-one treatments there
for an hour only once a week if we're
like oh yeah it's only once a week well
you know people don't have a reference
point because a lot of what happened to
PT or they don't know what PT is they
don't know what we do or how we can help
other people then what we want to do is
we want to sell people on the
transformation and make the monetary
value seem small in comparison to what
they're going to get so when you give
this part of a conversation or the
script or the you know call of people
what you want to ask is you find out all
these things to say is it okay if I tell
you a little bit about how we got people
we help active people stay fit healthy
and mobile without pain medications
injections in the surgery I've had
people just like you the past week you
tell a little story so - who had the
same problem we felt them with their
balance giving their arm overhead and
now they're back to feeling confident
and active so they can play with their
grandkids which is - does that sound
like something that you're interested in
yes absolutely or is that what you want
or does that sound like you
yes so one things we're also doing is
getting yes is an agreement from people
before we were making our sale so we
want to get multiple agreements so
that's
or dead like ask permission because they
don't cave ask you a few questions
yes okay so not people on this light
does this sound like you yes is it sound
like something you're interested in yes
okay great so we're getting these little
small trial closes ahead of time and
then we're going to tell you how much we
charge it's not we charge 147 but we
only need to you once a week it's okay
we do now we take we would want to say
in its not let me also back up it's a
it's not 147 and we do the features of
our business which are one-on-one
hands-on my colleagues trying to delay
once a week you know a doctor physical
therapist treating you those are all
features we need to enhance the benefits
that people are gonna receive so you can
say the features because they're
important you can say look our programs
start at just $147 that's the minimum of
investment you need for us to know
exactly what's going on at the time of
your visit will know exactly how long we
need to see you and to help you get to
your goals so if you decide to move
forward what that looks like is we'll
send you a questionnaire and we'll send
you a questionnaire and our intake forms
so send you to take form online
we'll get you scheduled for your
appointment and in the process of
getting to their goals or their vision
and so you restate those things so
getting you back to feeling confident on
your feet raise your arm overhead to be
able to play with your grandchildren
while avoiding all their pain and not
just physical pain like the things are
struggling with so avoiding having arm
pain or shoulder pain while you're
playing basketball and you know being
unable to go out of your house because
you're worried about you know whatever
it is they just told you and we're going
to get you to the process of getting
exactly what you want
and work together so that you can be
able to do XY and Z the things that they
told you they want to do how does that
sound
so now what we're doing is were asking
for agreement how does that sound great
we're agreeing on the last thing we just
stayed which is everything they want
everything that they don't want not the
price so how does it sound awesome
okay mrs. Jones would you like to come
in on Monday or Tuesday or Monday
morning we're better Tuesday afternoon
Monday morning okay not even 10:00 a.m.
we start giving them two options that
are great yeses we could also go insane
okay which program would you like to
start off but we you know but that's not
really for our PT practices if they've
agreed to coming in we don't know which
program until we evaluate them it's
which they can get you in for an
evaluation oh that's okay and they agree
it's a little expensive out though well
then okay and then if they're like
that's it expensive we haven't found the
thing or answered all their questions so
then we can go and say look well is
there a question or concern that you
have that I have an answer you know oh
well it's a little expensive I
understand yeah I'm on a budget too if I
was able to find a program that meets
your budget it also allows us to get you
back to doing the thing they want is
that something they were to say would
that work for you yes or oh no it's a
little expensive okay well then I don't
know I need to check with my seller so
well then we can start kind of
addressing the injections but then we
can go say we'll look it sounds like
you're still a little unsure about how
we can help you and what I'd like to do
is invite you in for a free body diagram
is it and it's about to eustress it
together one on one so that we can go
over all your concerns and I can take a
look through your body and see exactly
what it is that's going on
tell you exactly how we can help how is
that so you know if you or even you
repeat
we can I can do this discovery to
provide diagnostic it can help you can
show you exactly how to get back to
blank and avoid this so you can do all
these things how does that sound great
you know I've already now offered there
were three visits once did the monitor
for free visible and we just kind of go
through them some people have more
objection so we can go over more
injections in another video but it's the
sales process of price and features
minimize the price of features and
maximizing the impact of the
transformation that they want which
relies on the earlier part of
conversation and that's it
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
