[Music]
hello my name is Aaron Laval and I share
something really exciting with you I
just finished writing my first book to
catch PT blueprint and I want to give it
to you for free but before I tell you
how to do that I want to tell you about
who this book is for and who it's not
for I want to share with you a little
bit about what you can learn in this
book what it's going to do for you and
some of the things that it's not so this
book is going to help you understand how
to create a physical therapy business a
practice that allows you to treat
patients the exact way you would like to
be treated it's going to give you the
freedom to set up a business that will
allow you spend as much time with your
patients and give them a meaningful
result without relying on insurance
companies to pay for the visits and
determine how you treat patients so
inside this book here's what you get ya
part one is the cash PT blueprint so in
part number one you're gonna learn the
cash base mind set the value mindset in
your marketing mindset you're also going
to go through the exact steps that you
need to create a successful business
from the ground up and if you already
have a cash practice or a physical
therapy business of any kind you'll be
able to see the steps that we took to
create a business that serves patients
in a meaningful way that they're willing
to pay cash for and forego their great
insurance benefits so partner 1 the cash
PT blueprint is gonna allow you to set
up a business it gives you the life that
you want and the work-life balance that
you've desire and to be able to enjoy
your career as a physical therapist in
part number 2 of the book we go through
the cash Beauty marketing system these
are the top seven strategies that you
can install in your business to get as
many clients as you need who are willing
to forego the great insurance benefits
and pay you cash for physiotherapy and
then in part 3 of the book we go through
the entrepreneur mindset this is a most
important part of the book it's even one
of the shorter parts but look this is
the part these are the lessons that
you're going to learn on how to take
what you've just created a job and turn
it into a career and a true business and
become an entrepreneurs
you can go out of town on vacation and
still generate revenue in your business
and still help patients in your town in
your community even when you're enjoying
time with your family on vacation or
sleeping at the end of the book you have
all the steps you need to create a
successful cash practice even if you
don't want to be all cash you want to be
hybrid some Medicare some cash however
it fits best for you you'll learn all
the strategies and steps in this book if
you're one of the select few physical
therapy entrepreneurs many people think
are crazy to do things their own way and
you work for patients not insurance
company just go ahead and enter your
details below cover the shipping and
handling and we're gonna get this book
out to you as soon as possible and in
the meantime while you're waiting for
the book to arrive if you check the
little box below we'll send you the
e-book and the audio mp3 downloads you
can start taking action right away
[Music]
you
[Music]
