[Music]
here at the airport waiting there's
throngs of people I know there's got to
be dozens of pts over there and one of
the things that I wanted to come on
today and share with you there's just an
insight and don't let other people
control your narrative and what that
means is basically other people or going
to other people will call other people
the world the man the institution etc
don't let other people control your
narrative because when you do then you
don't have control you you let other
people decide for you what your reality
will be so if someone says cash-based
physical therapy's not possible no one's
gonna pay more than their copay and you
believe that well then it'll never
happen if someone says physical
therapy's not worth more than a hundred
dollars you believe that if someone says
people that were blue t-shirts like me
you know don't have a high IQ and should
never do XYZ and should always you know
like wash their laundry with Tide
well then that becomes your narrative
and then your narrative is the thing
that you always tell yourself well I
like blue t-shirts and you know I got a
wash with Tide even though the detergent
makes my skin itch and I really don't
like the commercial and what I want to
say is like would take that to you know
your story so people will create a story
they and create their own narrative and
what that means is it's basically it's
like I've got my story and it's tall
guys with red hair you know are less
than you know right because if you're
tall and you have red hair
and when you're younger people are gonna
tease you so then if I look at the world
through that lens and that filter and
everything becomes that everything
becomes for my story so think about this
the first thing is is to identify what
your story is what your lens with your
filter what your narrative is when you
can identify it then you can acknowledge
it and acknowledge that it's there and
once you acknowledge that it's there
then you can start to see the world
without a foggy you know it without like
foggy glasses and you want to you
understand okay
that's maybe that's my story maybe I'm
coming from my perspective it's it's the
whole reason that relationships get
messed up is because each person has a
different perspective and they're not
willing to share it with each other or
acknowledge that they maybe there's a
different perspective so it's different
than perspective so letting someone else
control your narrative is kind of really
about bubi
you know believe in yourself don't
believe what other people tell you as
possible or tell you you should do or or
tell you how you should act or be and
then when you can understand what your
story is and what your narrative is then
you can work on changing
so I hope that's helpful for for you
guys out there I mean this works in
business it works in life and personal
relationships and it's something that
took me really doing like a yoga teacher
training about four or five years ago
where we did a lot of self inquiry and
personal development work start to
acknowledge and realize it it's like you
know is someone really you know angry at
you it's like reading on social media
what is people post is like is that
really reflective on you or you just
reading it through your own lens your
own narrative so start seeing those
things a little differently and it's
gonna help you grow your business and
grow your Empire and help more patients
tremendously
[Music]
