[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
hey welcome back to the cash PT lunch
hour podcast I'm your host Aaron labauer
and today my special guest is Greg Cook
if you don't know gray and you're a
physical therapist you've probably been
sleeping under a rock but I wanted to
say uh I'm super excited to have gray on
the show he doesn't know this but I've
been learning from him for a long time
without having met him and that's the
beauty of the internet and growing and
scaling a large business and some of the
principles that he's learned were what I
intended or thought I was going to learn
when I went back to PT school so gray
thank you so much for helping me helping
my practice and join us on the show
today no thank you and thanks for
showing up in the parking lot a while
back you're just walking around and we
just met and I was having a typical day
on campus but uh you brought some energy
that day and I'm glad we met and I'm
glad we're doing this awesome yeah I
appreciate it yeah I just was passing
through town I was like well let me stop
off and see if uh anyone's home and I'm
glad I caught you guys so thank you the
joke the joke here in Chatham Virginia
is gray where's your clinic and I'm like
you take a left at the light and then
they say which light and I'm like you
didn't listen
[Laughter]
there's only one right I was on a bike
ride in northern Maine I was doing some
bike touring and we got lost and we
asked the kids say where do we turn to
go here and he said oh it's way down
past Johnny's house and we're like which
one's Johnny's house it was just the
next house mile down the road
yep so awesome well uh what I want to do
is just ask you a few questions just to
hopefully maybe give people a little bit
more insights about you but just so I
can learn a little bit and kind of set
the stage for where we're going
um
you've written a lot of books you've
taught a lot of people but really what I
want to know is when you got into PT
like did you ever intend to start a
business and teach a new movement system
and start educating people or did you
get in for some other reason and things
just took a turn like can you take us
back to that time and like like what was
that aha moment
um
my dad was a pretty good athlete and he
was better than me but I I started
sort of my whole journey in physical
development or changing myself
physically just as a young athlete as a
discus thrower played football
um
you know did some did some stuff like
that so instantly the art of coaching
was of more interest to me than than
becoming maybe Healthcare healer
oriented or whatever
and then I realized
that the the coach is only good when
you're not injured and so then I'm like
and some people get injured and never
come back we would see these athletic
stories on TV or my dad and I'll be
watching the documentary on Olympic
athletes so I said who unpacks those
problems right and then I realized you
know sports medicine physical therapy
orthopedic surgery physiatry
Chiropractic osteopath what do I want to
do the one thing I knew I didn't want to
do is make a pharmaceutical company Rich
there are already like two paychecks
away from being richer than God and I
don't want them to be richer than God
because then it'll think things will be
different so I didn't want to feed the
allopathic model even as a young
undergrad in college I realized the
allopathic model was set up for the
convenience of the health care worker
not the person suffering and
it reminds me of a story that I didn't
have access to at the time
but Wayne Dyer
um you know he was he was the
motivational guy before Anthony Robbins
came around but Wayne Dyer basically
tells a story of a a village that was
imprisoned by a bunch of Warlords and
all the people of fighting age were
jammed into prison and
um there were some people on the
outskirts that wanted to at least do
something so one of the entrepreneurs
said let's get him some fresh water they
got to be jailed the Warlords are
occupying the territory but at least
they don't have to drink that
then another guy said I I have the
resources to get blankets to everybody
so they don't have to sleep on a floor
and another guy said I'm in agriculture
let's get him some fresh fruits and
vegetables
fourth guy was an entrepreneur and he
said I have a very special set of skills
and friends we're going to find the key
and let everybody out and so the first
three are noble people in that they
assumed they could help these people
suffer comfortably I want to be the
badass that hands you to the key hand
you the key and says you don't have to
be in low back pain and you don't have
to be 30 pounds heavier and you haven't
done anything wrong except listen to
Media for Health Care advice and we can
we can flip that right away so I always
wanted to be in a position for
transformation not transaction yeah
because outside of Athletics or outside
of a wonderful moment with your family
or friends a transformational moment in
the clinic
is why you wake up and do it and they
don't happen every day at 2 30 right
they I mean one of my transformational
uh things in the clinic was I had to
break through somebody's bad toe touch
pattern one day in clinic
so I just on the Fly invented the toe
touch progression now I commonly do that
on stage when I'm lecturing to both
healthcare workers and performance and
fitness people where I'll find somebody
in the audience that literally hasn't
pulled a correct toe touch in 20 years
I'm talking stopping at their kneecaps
and obviously you got to pick your
person right
um but I'm pretty good at pattern
recognition so I can tell
as they're coming up on the stage
they're like yeah I've had fascia work
for years my posterior chain I've got a
lumbar disc I've got fallen arches
they're just giving me the structural
arguments of why they can't touch their
toes and the real reason is it's a poor
weight-shifting maneuver and most people
don't shift their weight back before
they lean forward and they have a tonic
response in their hamstrings which
limits their range of motion but that's
an anti-fall command that's not the link
the static length of your hamstrings so
I'll do a trick it's called the toe
touch progression TPI uses it in their
golf education right now we used it in
the early days of kettlebell getting
somebody a little bit better hip hinging
before they swing the point being I'm
not showing you
that uh I have the neatest tricks in the
world all of us have neat tricks or we
wouldn't get the mic and we wouldn't be
on stage what I'm demonstrating is
without words a functional problem there
is no structure keeping you from
touching your toes this is an
organizational operational uh tension
allocation alignment Balancing Act and
you're running the wrong app to touch
your toes right and so I do this little
mind scrub body scrub and now all of a
sudden you touch your toes
because I took away the app that said
you've got to do it this way a lot of
people took that right back to the
clinic and used that tactic to break
through a bad forward bending movement
pattern they didn't use it the way I use
it is to I can do the same thing with
single leg stance or t-spine Mobility
the point is most of our clients
athletes and patients coming to us today
are under the illusion that a big part
of their physical limitation is
structural and it's not it's functional
99 of the reason your phone's running
like today is you got too much
open turn it off close it down let it
reset you'll find out you don't have a
bad phone it's got a bad operator and
the message that I really think we've
we've brought this movement conversation
to is we can get to the bottleneck of
any movement problem you got even if
it's between your ears or even if it's
in your awareness because we try to
change Behavior by adding a new Behavior
the way you change behavior is to
basically confront perception and and I
really do appreciate those moments
because my biggest moments in the clinic
ornament nip or a perfect placement of a
dry needle or even the discovery of an
exercise it's when I do something that
helps them get it because they never
unget it again especially people have
been burdened with a problem if they've
had a problem for a while and you
elegantly kindly and clearly take them
to that bottleneck of perception that
they had and boom it opens up
and you know the person who walked up on
stage was saying all the way up on stage
I haven't touched my toes in 20 years
because they didn't say that Y and Z
problem right right they were already
pre-loading the cant my confidence just
outweighed your doubt today so I win and
if your confidence doesn't wait outweigh
their doubt you're going to burn out
quickly in practice you've got to carry
the confidence not the Cockiness right
it's different you know I think I I see
this and I think we're jump my brain
jumps in all the different directions
but uh I think I see the problem what
I've been trying to figure out is how do
I keep patients from coming in and
saying Dr LeBauer I was told never lift
35 pounds ever again if I bend over I'm
gonna blow up my disc and all these
things and I I'm starting to realize
it's our society's messaging through
media through
um social media you know through movies
even just the rock choose opioids like
candy in his movies it's like I'm seeing
that that's a big feeder of the problem
how do we start changing that perception
or how do we get PT and the Forefront in
a in a correct manner of what we do or
change the perception of the public of
what injury and pain is all about so
that it makes our jobs easier in the
clinic you know when people come in and
and are saying I've got all these
problems you know what I'm saying no I
know exactly what you're saying and I've
mentored a lot of young therapists and
I'm I'm probably not a good Mentor
because I was raised by a guy
who always told me be a leader not
follower but I didn't understand what he
was talking about
um I was a captain of the football team
I was the captain of the track team I
was an RA in my dorm I always position
myself in leadership roles but three
years into my physical therapy practice
I was
becoming board certified as an
orthopedic specialist and I was already
a strength coach and I was already
Olympic weightlifting coach
um
and I realized many of the things that I
was doing in clinic were easily
preventable if I'd been there a few
weeks ago if I could have been your
strength coach I wouldn't have to be
your PT if I could have been your parent
I wouldn't have to be your Confidant
right now and so
I realized this space and opportunity of
a touch with physical therapy that you
got the therapy is not the e-stem
machine that I'm hooking you to or the
scraping tool that I'm dragging across
your tissue the PT is the radically
transparent algorithm that I'm running
in my brain the algorithmic thinking
that's going to take me to the weakest
link and then help calculate the minimum
effective dose it sounds lackluster
because I'm arguing for minimums here
not maximum because if you if you talk
to a sleep expert you're going to wind
up in a 68 degree room that's totally
dark and the TV goes off at 10 o'clock
and all the kids are on Ambien right so
everybody in the space of advice argues
for optimization
right right but it's not optimization
isn't always accessible nope you're if
if I've told this to Young clinicians
and I'll tell it to your audience too if
you're sitting at making a clinical
decision and you have a choice to remove
a negative or add a positive remove the
negative if they need three Bourbons to
go to sleep and they're wondering if a
little green tea in the morning would
undo that it won't remove the bourbon
you can hold on to the green tea or you
can drink it it doesn't matter but the
the flaxseed shake it doesn't beat the
drive-through twice a day it just
doesn't so when I'm basically seeing
people who are
uh representing Regional interdependence
they have multiple
musculoskeletal issues and a focal point
of pain
how do I justify treating the whole body
and stuff I go to the bottleneck I
literally do and I don't guess at the
bottleneck I let a movement hierarchy
tell me your bottleneck and what I mean
by that is in in the developmental
sequence of learning to walk we see head
and neck control we see kids picking
their feet up we see them rolling we see
them doing things
and I honestly think that if you value
taking a history of a patient realize
that every bit of that history ran
through their frontal lobe and their
conscious experience
but if I ask you if you can ask the
grass deep squat with your heels flat
and you say yes and then I ask you to
and you can't I'm going to believe your
subconscious mind not your conscious
mind because you have what we call a
confidence reality disconnect the
objective information I just collected
on your movement pattern or I could do
it on a force plate camera goni armor
doesn't matter and what you think is a
normal squat are disconnected there's
your problem in therapy right there
until that problem goes away heat stem
scraping needles and a bunch of uh
anatomical descriptions of how your
glute and pelvic floor and back work
together don't matter
they they think their squats fine they
think a squat is supposed to hurt they
think they're always supposed to shift
to the right in a squat or their heels
are supposed to pop up that early so
creating the awareness I didn't I get
through somebody's sfma their selective
functional movement assessment or
movement screen I don't tell them how
they scored I go right to the bottleneck
that the objective screen showed me hip
hinge for one single leg stance for
another breathing for one person right I
go right to that bottleneck and then I
say is there a state under this so if
you have really poor balance I can take
you to Rolling left and right and you're
probably going to show me a rolling
asymmetry that's about as obvious as
your single leg stance asymmetry
when I take you out of the practice
session
down below this conscious orientation do
a little adjustment of you if you will
meaning yeah you're holding your breath
when you roll so let's just get a
rolling session going they come back up
and post better single leg stance
there's a transparency there that a lot
of therapists don't get I didn't
practice battles for four minutes
they know I didn't practice balance for
four minutes I practice something that
looks so different than balance
that it doesn't even have the same
connotation this is like and then I
brought yeah
right so I just want to this I think is
an important concept I want to clarify
for people like especially clinically
it's instead of practicing a fastball to
throw a faster fastball you're
practicing a knuckleball a curveball
you're even doing something like playing
basketball to throw a faster fastball
it's not it's it's that same concept
right exactly because we know if if
you've ever learned I've got I've got
actually uh probably two learning
disabilities I didn't know about till I
got in college I'm ADHD and I got
dyslexia so I'm just like hey
let me take the C because the way you
guys want me to learn is going to take
me 25 hours a day to get an A but I can
Coast buy to see in the effort to get a
B from you people right because if you
have a reading problem in every test
you're taking even in science and and
Mathematics is sentences you're done
right anyway I have the same issue when
you have a learning disability or when
you're trying to learn optimally
chunking information is extremely
important
five and ten minute chunks smaller than
that if you're frustrated
but getting out of the domain you're
trying to overthink and getting into a
Natural Balance reaction timing
orientation coordination that you still
have so a lot of low back patients
retain the pattern to do quadruped
diagonals the classic bird dog exercise
that everybody does but nobody could
speak a half hour on why that's so
important where would I go if they can't
do that and what do I do if they can if
they can't bird dog get them to Rolling
and if they can you better be taking
their ass to half kneeling as quick as
possible because they're not going to be
here enough visits for you to polish
each of these patterns to Perfection you
use them just like a a rock climber
advances up the the wall that could have
been a better hold but I didn't have a
better hold but I had to get up the wall
so you do
so when I break down somebody's problem
I know they got a sleep problem I know
they're 30 pounds overweight I know
their O2 SATs about 96 or 97 right now
and I know they're probably dehydrated
any exercise at all is probably going to
stir up more inflammation than healing
what do I do the very first thing I do
is find out that fundamental movement
pattern that doesn't provoke pain and
also creates just enough to challenge to
make them aware but not enough to
intimidate them right that is where we
sit if this is the biggest bite you can
chew more on the fork doesn't do anybody
any good and the more I tell them and
the less I let them experience so if I
if I tell you Aaron you got a balance
problem I'm not I'm going to say get up
off the floor you will use one leg more
than the other because you will pick one
half kneeling as opposed to the other
one then I'll say not do it the other
way I barely can that's what I mean
about a battle's problem yeah and
they're like oh yeah I get what you're
saying yeah and that's kind of like
where you start getting buy-in and I I
think with from the patients right and I
think the the most amazing thing for me
and some of those situations is I'll
take someone who's a former professional
athlete or their top level athlete put
them in a position that's compromising
like single leg uh like what the half
kneeling single leg lunge and and
they're sweating bullets and they can't
hold it and they're just like whoa like
this should be easy and now they've
bought in and you know what I also tell
them you're not this deconditioned
because I've done that half kneeling
trick too and if you narrow the base
um they go sympathetic on you yeah and
so the response they're having
is a anti-fall fear strategy not a I've
gotta own this position strategy and
that's why I mean there's a lot of
people that can't half Neil comfortably
but oh man if today's workout has
Turkish Get Up On It then we got to do
that and I'm like you're just going to
rush through a very stable transition
Point that's made to make the move work
better not right not less but but I I
try to create with the data I collect
screening assessment with my hands with
my history with any other device I'm
using
I try to convert that into a non-verbal
experience
that we can both share so whenever I say
you got a balance problem it's not like
they're intimidated by me saying you're
slouching again you didn't remember to
engage your glutes nobody's supposed to
do that you're supposed to freaking walk
yeah what I'm trying to say is remember
how you felt when I made you roll to
your left and get up on your left side
as opposed to roll to your right and get
up on your right side remember how you
felt
try that again right now does that feel
better or worse yeah oh that's way
better than whatever nutrient this whole
thing needs because part of this is your
awareness part of this is your
programming part of this is your tissue
warm-up part of this is you having a
better sense of awareness and you
actually slow down and by the way the
last time you did this I got it on video
you held your breath the whole time
right I think you know I think that's
what's so effective at least for me what
really clicked when I started um using
sfma in our practice was that it wasn't
about making people think about moving
it was giving them some external input
or challenge that improved their
movement and saying oh how did that feel
or what remember what you felt like
rather than do these like breathe let go
tighten your glutes do all like do
10-step process it I can't even remember
and people can't conceptualize in their
bodies but it's the feeling that they're
getting during that session I think is
what's been the most powerful change for
people no it is and and when I've had an
intern with me for more than a year I
start zip tying their hands and their
mouth behind their back and saying
listen
they don't have to learn
what you know about being a sniper
to reclaim their health and you can talk
your way through it and say I'm
penetrating the multifidus on the right
right now and I've just landed on your
lamina and stuff like I mean you can
impress people with medical speed
but on the other side of that I try to
Mark Twain the out of it Mark Twain
can say the same thing Aristotle said in
half the words and most rednecks can get
it right that's where I live and and the
more people that can understand the
concept the better it is so don't tell
people you're a sniper or tell them what
you did to acquisition the target unless
they ask
you'll know I'm a sniper when a half
mile away you hear the steel go ping I
don't have to tell you because you're
not going to find many other people that
can do that and that's what you hear
when you take the little extra time to
do a an sfma you will hear people say
I've never had a more thorough exam or a
cleaner explanation well they go hand in
hand because I left no stone unturned I
knew which one was the next one in the
way it's not the only problem you got
but it's the only one I want your help
with the rest is my problem right yeah
and and and I'll unpack that because the
cool thing is when you get to the
weakest link and when you work from the
minimum effective dose meaning if you're
if you're on the weakest link and it
ain't changing
you're not doing what you're doing
enough or you're doing the wrong thing
that's it and so it's a really easy
place to come out of but once we got the
minimum effective dose
if I've got a compliance issue
I can't I can't let you off the hook for
any less than this because we're not
going to make the progress you're paying
me to make and I don't need your money
that bad so this is so so what they
don't realize is through the Integrity
of my exam I've painted them right into
a corner of adult accountability here's
your bottleneck here's your weakest link
and here's the least you can possibly do
and not waste both our time right and
then people obviously ever say that too
right right you have to feel the result
from that like they do but right but I'm
not just saying that I'm gonna I'm gonna
back it up meaning because the movement
model
has been
the functional movement model has been
underplayed and the structural model the
pharmaceutical model and the pain
control model have been overplayed we
don't realize these are equal assets I
know most everything every other
clinician knows about the chronic pain
model and some of those behaviors I know
you know all these other things but the
fact that we don't play the functional
test retest as much as we do the
structural test retest right and and so
so every person who's ever had an x-ray
has degenerative changes and they tell
me that like I'm supposed to be
impressed by it I'm like if a baby's
been walking three weeks somebody's
gonna say they got degenerative changes
man I mean they're just saying what they
see I'm not quite so sure that's why
this is happening to you now because
most of those degenerative changes were
on your X-ray 18 months ago and you'd
never had a back problem 18 months ago
so you know it's it's not a lot of logic
built in to a structure-based allopathic
model so the only chance we got
is to do something that feels awkward or
impossible and in the same session
liberate that situation knowing that I
didn't make you stronger
or more Mobile in a single session I
helped you dump inappropriate tone
tension fear and bad feed forward motor
programming right how do we so how do we
get this
um get this system get people to look at
their movement how do we get looking at
someone's movement movement quality in
line before someone's scared to death
about insurance and they have to go get
an MRI to know exactly what's going on
like how do we get that piece what is
there anything we can do as physical
therapists or or just as movement
professionals how do we get that in
front of the line so that's the first
stop for people
do you mean um
academically like how do I prepare
myself as a clinician to get ready for
that or how do I prioritize that in the
system of my daily practice how do we
get it yes so how do we do it in our
daily practice so like what I really
want people to think is is when I tweak
my back I know I need a total body
diagnostic to know what's going on
rather than I know I need an MRI so you
know when someone gets hurt they tweak
their back tweak their knee they go to
the orthopedic surgeon orthopedic
surgeon says you know what we can always
do surgery but first let's get you an
MRI they don't put their hands on them
they don't do any special tests they use
the MRI is a diagnostic tool not as a
confirmation of it of the diagnosis or
when they're red flags they just use it
across the board like I won't see you
unless we have an MRI first how do we
get a physical therapy screen a movement
screen FMS sfma a top tier a something
in front of the line so that people in
our society know I need to improve my
movement to get better long term rather
than I just need to get another X-ray
and and end up being scared because I've
got a hernia disc
well if the person is truly
truly interested I would say
we've got to argue both sides of this
thing fairly
you will agree that your iPhone both has
structure and function to it
okay
the only way I can test your phone's
function is I have to function it right
I have to hit buttons and and open apps
and close apps
and to vet the structure I just got to
take it apart and put it back together
to help you we got to argue both sides
now here's my Olive Branch you don't
have pristine structure
but you also don't have pristine
function
we've already met your structural
abnormalities we must also map your
functional abnormalities because I can't
change your structure
as quickly as you need me to
but if we alter your function
today
next year your structure looks different
right and there's an irony here all the
right-handed tennis players I've ever
worked with had greater bone density in
their right hand
now
did they just happen to pick up a racket
in that hand uh or you know and choose
the arm get lucky and choose the arm of
Greater bone density or just choking the
 out of that racket on a good Top
Spin forehand create the muscle
compressive forces to activate Wolf's
Law greater on your right arm than your
left arm so I I will drop something like
that to say I'm not here to refute the
structural model I'm here to defend the
functional model because most 90 year
olds that are still active and enjoying
life and walking around in their
community and cognitively and physically
participating you know as as somebody
who's not having to be taken care of
they don't have perfect structure or
function they balanced it out right and
The Balancing Act of your structure and
function
your your goals and your capacity this
is The Balancing Act we're doing and
I've always found there's more
adjustability and function not because
I'm good or not because I discovered
something unique there's a less that's
been done for it your PE teacher didn't
take a functional approach your GP
didn't take a functional approach your
OB GYN didn't taking a functional
approach and the person who gave you a
hernia repair didn't take a functional
approach because that's an orthopedic
surgery but they're not an orthopedic
surgeon so nobody refers rehab post
C-section or hernia
even though most of these people would
light up an sfma and are about a year
away from low back pain or neck pain
because their core was surgically
altered and they weren't
oriented into rehab they were back
upright using a core and that's when
those multifidus get sleepy and stuff
like that so
if I'm not being cocky today I'll say
we've got to be able to argue both sides
of this and once we argue both sides
one's going to make a lot more sense to
you yeah and it'll have a lot less
barrier to that the other way I say it
is listen
the functional movement station has been
at the NFL combine for probably 10 years
now not everybody going through the NFL
combine gets an MRI but guess what every
one of them gets a movement screen so uh
it's low barrier it tells me way more
about you from head to toe does it take
the kind of uh dive that an MRI does no
but but I tell you what you flunk a
movement screen bad enough we'll get an
MRI you can pass an MRI it doesn't tell
me a thing about your movement screen so
you know it's I I'll argue it one way or
the other but I swear
making the clinical decision to screen
and assess whole movement patterns first
is almost like a person who calls
himself an eye doctor not having the eye
chart just I mean it all starts at the
eye chart right uh which one is blurry
it's like it doesn't matter what your
eyesight is if you can't see but if you
can see using a glasses or contacts or
some tool some different uh functional
like uh what's it called uh uh like a
strategy some kind of because there's
five different strategies we can use to
help someone get better at running
probably probably more it doesn't matter
which one of those tools is if the
transformation the the goal is being met
versus what the structure looks like or
what the what the strategy is right well
see the eye chart is elegant and
beautiful because
it's a standard
right the the letters are a certain size
to correlate with the 20 feet back
you're supposed to be
so we don't arbitrarily get to pick the
size of the lines that people read so
you can imagine how I felt when I threw
the movement screen out there and people
like yeah we do the squat test we don't
do the push-up I'm like that's like
reading line three and thinking you've
you know it's it's not
it's not about one pattern's more
important than the other in a
developmental progression each of these
Milestones must be competent or it
creates a poor foundation for the next
movement pattern which is entirely
possible that's what compensation and
adaptation is for but the other Beauty
in the eye chart is
you wouldn't be in an eye doctor if you
had perfect vision so you're going to be
challenged at some point in this visual
obstacle course just like you will be
challenged at some point in the sfma in
clinic or in the FMS when you're over at
the gym
but that sets a baseline because what
the doctor at the I uh facilities also
getting ready to do is lay a lens
on your nose and all of a sudden the
blurry line changes in a single session
now he can have a set of eyeglasses
that's ground to make your eyes converge
better and maybe do some eye muscle
training or this is hey your your lens
isn't good anymore and we gotta account
for that I we're readers right now my
point is most people that I've met
aren't as passionate to set a baseline
as me because they aren't as confident
in the fact that they're going to change
that damn thing way quicker than the
consensus and I already know if I lay a
functional Milestone down on you
our 80 20 play is we can modulate it not
just enough for us to measure it
different but enough for you to
appreciate it different and at that
level of Integrity we'll move forward
from there so I'm not the the eye charts
there in the beginning to find out what
you are but it's also there to show you
the value value of this experience
with very little effort on your part or
very little thinking on your part just
trust me lay these on put these glasses
on now how does it look and that's what
I want to do with balance and that's
what I want to do with posture and stuff
and ultimately I think we try to coach
people into these places instead of
providing an experience where they're
like wow all you had me do
was stretch my back and walk on the
balance beam four times and now my
balance is better on that little motor
control screen you did I'm like yeah
that's how easy this is
if we get to the problem I wouldn't have
known to go there had I not broken all
those other movements out out of the 20
movements I did on you only two were bad
but I had to do all 20 to figure that
out and I'll never not do all 20. so
right so I think there's a good uh kind
of time to say you recently wrote a book
The Business of movement right which is
great I've got a copy and I've got a
couple questions I want to ask you about
and I think the very first question uh
and you talk about this in the book but
I'd love for you to share a little bit
is how are you using your screens so
that sfma and FMS like the different
screens that you guys have created to
um enhance and grow your business I
think you talk about the effectiveness
of the treatment like you have to be
good and we've talked about being a
sniper but how are you using these
moments in time of screening people to
help grow your practice or help grow
your business because I think that's one
of the number one questions that people
are probably asking themselves okay
great this sounds good but how is it
going to benefit me and my business
growth and I know there's some
strategies that you guys have used in
uh it is and in the beginning the FMS
and sfma were simply internal tools I
wasn't advertising them because
I came back to my hometown
and I was up against two physical
therapy practices the hospital
and the orthopedic groups
uh pet dog
got it yeah yeah my my best thing about
you know and and I I guess I offend some
people but if you're in a
physician-owned practice you ain't got
to be good you just got to be there just
got to be at the end of the conveyor
belt and just sign your name to a bunch
of things and measure a few things and
cut off some theraband 35 years of that
retire in Florida and think you did
something but all you help people do is
suffer comfortably and so I was up
against the hospital and I was up
against the position group so the sfma
and FMS couldn't be marketing tools for
me they had to be my Swiss army knife so
I could close cases better
and more thorough
for who first football coaches personal
trainers massage therapists who got a
little bit stuck on somebody who had
continuous trigger point I educated the
podiatrist and said hey you take care of
the foot we'll make sure everything
above that is going just like you want
it to I marketed to GPS general surgeons
doing the hernias and stuff like that
the oral surgeons doing TMJ I went
everywhere except the orthopedic
practice because I knew they weren't
going to send me anybody
but I tell you what happened after three
years of me doing everything else one of
those orthopods would have a kid or a
wife with a problem
they'd send them to me not across the
hall all right so don't don't think I
wasn't aware of that uh I didn't rub
their face in it because they didn't
know how to make money as an orthopedic
surgeon without also having the kickback
from physical therapy to to get through
and that's just like somebody selling a
bunch of Herbalife in their waiting room
I obviously can't make enough money in
healthcare you got to sell me all my
supplements too that's fine if you do
um but I guess where I'm going is
first and foremost for me
it helped me close the case and do my
job better and from that
it then did become a point of how do you
guys do things different and I would say
why so what I would literally say is the
first thing I would do if if you have
the sfma credential which is our
clinical base movement screen
I would literally go on the FMS website
and find out how many trainers and
strength coaches in my area understood
the FMS
number one I wouldn't go to them unless
I was FMS certified I got a lot of
clinicians that love the sfma but they
don't understand the FMS and the FMS is
how I discharge people I don't discharge
you with an sfma I would like to be
ambitious enough to think I can run a
long-term projection I'm not doing it
because I think you'll get a perfect
movement screen I can actually design a
better more sustainable workout for you
in the future and with your trainer or
with your coach if I have an FMS
the sfma helps me diagnose you the FMS
helps me prognose active people going
back to more than sedentary environments
so number one own both credentials and
then go and say Hey I want to match wits
with you if you guys ever want to get
together and do some screens together
for friends and family I'll do that and
anytime you find a problem I'll run the
model as good as you do meaning I want
to trust you if I send you a screen you
can trust me if you need pain to be
broken out of that with an sfma so start
building the bridge of those people that
could be referral sources and if you're
the only one in the area that that knows
it I mean a long time ago I would hold
workshops for
um trainers in my area just to come
learn about one movement pattern they
they already check out if I try to teach
them a whole screen but I was teaching
them enough to refer or I was making
them aware that when you get a referral
from me I know exercise is good as you
so don't freelance this thing okay hold
them together for four weeks until I can
take the ropes off of them they want to
pay you money they can't afford me
anymore but let's do this together for a
month and then do what you need to do
and most people respected that they they
respected that transparency and I built
the network from there that and we
covered all the football games for free
for a while now you better be sure we
had on windbreakers with our logo on the
back but you know parents coaches and
and it took me about three years to
completely marginalize my local hospital
in the orthopedic group they didn't they
didn't close down they just didn't get
any of the business I didn't want them
to have wow so that's awesome what is
that's so great what do you think like
when running your practice and running
your online education business what do
you think were the one or two most
pivotal
moments or things that happen to you or
aha moments where you saw a problem and
you were able to you know create
something new like what we're looking
back like what would you say was the
what was kind of the
um like that spark that took you to
another level with your with your
business growth leadership management
Etc
because I was trying to be respectful of
clinicians strength coaches athletic
trainers chiropractors
I
I didn't know how
to say
if you don't get standard operating
procedure
we can't be peers
doesn't mean I'm better doesn't mean
you're not we're doing two different
jobs right there's a pilot in the
cockpit with a clipboard and there's one
who just takes a swig of bourbon and
says I can figure this out and and I
hate to say it but you're only going to
want to fly with one of those people
clinicians
uh are often highly intimidated
when another clinician
wants to Banter this problem okay and
that's almost like saying I'm a fighter
but I hate to spar right this is not
personal I'm not trying to one-up you
I'm trying to learn something too but
when when I got a match wits with Greg
Rose of an amazing chiropractor and
biomechanist it ain't pretty right but I
can bro hug him on the beginning and I
can bro hug him on the back end and we
do fine so the very first thing
I did is I saw how many clinicians
were overly sensitive and intimidated by
me saying hey if you don't run it like
this it's probably not going to run you
know and then well we don't have time we
went on I'm like you know then
only do only do sfma on Tuesday and
Thursday in six months you'll see those
cases close quicker because you're on
the problem quicker but I think I didn't
come out of the gates I came out of the
gates a little humble a little
apologetic
saying this is a practical tool research
hasn't figured out how it works yet they
would still rather you have two camera
systems and a force plate I can kick
your ass every day of the week with a
better movement model because there are
no assumptions built into it doesn't
mean I don't have valuable Force plate I
just don't need it to diagnose you I
just don't so I should have come out
earlier saying you're either doing it
this way or you're not
um I probably would have heard our
business a little bit but at the same
time now going back and getting people
please don't treat the functional
battery of tests that we assembled as a
buffet that you're educated enough to
consume if you come on board and you're
thinking efficient not effective you
will arbitrarily delete tests you don't
understand and that is the worst time to
delete a test you're going to delete a
test that you're intimidated by or don't
know if they were to flaunt this test
how would I intervene and correct that
so I think what we really have is when
we teach people assessment we unpack the
holes in their manual therapy and their
knowledge of exercise and their
knowledge of movement screening
patterning balance control and stuff
like that
and one of the things that I try to tell
the Orthopedic physical therapist I work
with is listen all I'm doing is throwing
the neuro component right back in never
assume that an orthopedic patient
doesn't have an equally burdened
neurological system and perceptive
Behavior system and so you can talk
labor meniscus and psoas all day long if
they don't know how to hip hinge you're
always going to have those problems you
know and if they do you might still have
them but you could go 10 years without
having to have any scopes on these areas
so I think my one regret is I wish I
could have found a Kinder way to say
if you're not gonna fight the Gracie way
then don't call it Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
just say I'm a really good Street
Fighter that likes to go to the ground
but don't say you're you know don't say
the girls in school is bro bro hugged
you because different and when I got to
get into curriculum and and certain
schools started adopting the model I'm
like drill this stuff because we don't
fall to the level of our education we
fall to the level of our training and
our drilling so if you can't get through
a Top Gear sfma in two minutes
then I don't care how long you take
you're over analyzing something that was
meant to be a fluid Dynamic
representation of their abilities in
bottlenecks yeah yeah no I get it I
agree I think it's important there was
one other thing in the book that you
said that really made uh that stuck out
to me and you said new Concepts on the
Leading Edge of any field rarely come
out of evidence
right can you explain a little bit about
what you mean about that and why why
that's important
well
they they do come out of evidence but
not the kind that we're used to
consuming in journal articles okay I
think the
the FMS was already a very well
respected tool
in the NFL
and in the all six SEAL Teams
before any Journal article ever
recognized that and and some of the
researchers that did initially want to
unpack the movement screen
didn't even get certified in the
movement screen and therefore did the
scoring criteria wrong on many of their
first FMS articles now I wouldn't try to
comment or do research on kettlebells if
I wasn't certified and I definitely
wouldn't try to comment on CPR to the
Red Cross if I hadn't at least gone
through the training but there were a
lot of phds out there that just saw this
out of left field movement appraisal so
there's nothing in the uh how can I say
the evidence-based practice that told us
to take a functional approach my gut
told me holy I've got a Page worth
of data on this person
and I still can't tell you if they can
deep squat or not and it's a universal
fundamental representation of core
stability hip mobility ankle mobility
and actually balance strategy if
somebody can deep squat they're not
going to have a big trouble getting up
off the floor and if somebody can't it's
going to look different and and so so
there was just so much
um
there was just so much natural Humanity
that that we weren't bringing to the
exam so the day I invented the movement
screen I didn't throw away manual muscle
testing and goniometry I simply said if
manual muscle testing and goniometry say
you're good and it hurts to touch your
toes I'm gonna I'm gonna challenge the
impairment measures with a global
functional measure you're whether you
know it or not your insurance is paying
me to generate a global better Behavior
out of you both with risk and symptoms
your goniometer can be one of the
bottlenecks your lack of strength can be
one of the bottlenecks but the funny
thing is when we take a goniometric or
manual muscle test approach it's real
easy to get blinders on and strengthen
that muscle group you were thinking of
and assume that gait fixed itself right
you know you get I've seen Trendelenburg
with a weak glute medius and with a
strong glute medius so the glute medius
isn't the isn't the bottleneck here
sometimes I think it goes back to what
you said in the beginning where it was
like instead of making you suffer last
I'm going to figure out how to get you
out of the door out of the room right I
think that that's one of the things that
um this uh pointed out to me and and you
may or may not see this but the way I
see it is gray you've got a superpower
to find solutions to problems other
people aren't seeing and you said hey I
found something that means something to
me let me prove it myself and then go
teach it to other people and I think
that that's one of the things that a lot
of people don't realize is that there is
a value in doing something that's not
not not the way it's always been done
because that's where Innovation happens
right and and you know I
I want
the people listen to this podcast to
realize early in my career
I recognized that there wasn't enough
Precision in the diagnostic process
oh it's inflammation oh it's this who's
gonna question you right who's going to
question you
so I said I need a local and Global
appraisal of movement
so if I say you got horrible ankle
Mobility not only can my goniometer tell
me that your deep squat can tell us that
okay if I say you've got poor core
stability and single leg stance on left
I can check the muscles in the hip and
show that they're weaker on that side
but I can also ask you to balance
when both those measures agree or when
both those measures disagree I feel like
I have alignment with local
measurement or impairment measures and
Global or functional measures
what I then realized going through all
my manual therapy searches many
musculoskeletal therapists don't really
isolate
the broken pattern they are very good at
getting to the part sometimes but they
don't really show all the different ways
that pattern represents itself open
chain closed chain asymmetrical
symmetrical transitional right so
I started looking at that and I'm like
okay I got Global and local right now
now that we can take the sfma and go
right down the rabbit hole and and shoot
like a sniper I literally think the
thing that therapists trying to
distinguish their self in the near
future
are going to have to run lifestyle
meaning almost everything I said in that
book is you're getting ready to have a
little bit longer term relationship with
your patient than you thought but if you
envision that as manual therapy that's
not going to work
they can ask Google the same question
they can ask you and Google answer it
quicker and flashier and Link them with
a lot of confirmation bias that makes
Google Sound smarter than you right
right I did a Google Talk by the way
itself if anybody wants it was like a
long-form TED Talk that's an impressive
yeah I call it I call it uh search for
your movement because if Google knows
what I'm searching for then believe it
or not I figured out what you're
searching for and it's not side planks
it's a better core and those two have
nothing to do with each other
um but when when we go at this
I honestly think that when somebody
decides to pay cash for your service
they're probably the same kind of person
that can afford a wearable
so I can have an objective conversation
about your sleep right now if you got on
a Garmin watch or an oral ring or a
whoop band or a Fitbit I can have an
objective conversation about your sleep
your steps my my aura ring does my O2
sat when I sleep right now when I had
covid I could talk to my doctor about my
temperature over a 24-hour cycle so the
first thing I want
your listeners to understand is
if your client has already picked you it
doesn't mean they have disposable income
it means they value your service
Upstream from a movement problem is poor
sleep hydration breathing in an
inflammatory diet Downstream of a
movement problem is activity level BMI
and incomplete rehab from the last thing
you just did I want that in the room I
can probably shave three treatment days
off you by doing that and I don't mind
doing that I don't mind telling you that
because you already know I'm trying to
maximize value
and I'm also trying to say the more I
don't say home exercise program the more
self-care you'll do the quicker
will both be happy with this if you
become independent quicker that doesn't
cost me a dime I got somebody waiting
for your slot it's not this doesn't run
that way but periodic touches with me as
you transition back to a fully
independent life are going to be high
value because we're not going to do the
sfma in a month we're going to do the
FMS and ybt in a month because you want
to be playing more golf next spring so
that's the transition of this and so we
met on low back pain we're going to
finish taking four off your handicap not
because I'm a golf coach because I
realize if you can only walk nine your
game is deteriorating
um as you play now yeah so so now I look
at the wearable now I'm very involved in
creating self-care apps so I can
basically line up The Dominoes that get
your musculoskeletal system ready to
change and if I'm issuing a correct
active exercise on a sleep deprived
dehydrated person with a breathing
problem it's not going to stick you're
you're you're writing a document and
you're not hitting save on it and so
breathing screens wearables uh a quick
talk I'm not trying when I have a
nutrition talk with somebody I'm not
having the weight loss talk I'm saying
the foremost inflammatory foods on the
planet right refined sugar alcohol
specifically gluten and dairy are gonna
light you up I ain't saying you gotta
quit this I'm saying for the next two
weeks if you could figure this out
you're going to be carrying a more
honest inflammatory load in your low
back so I can treat the local back
inflammation as opposed to the global
lifestyle inflammation that is now a
complicating factor and so if we're
impassioned to find Regional
interdependence meaning oh why would I
work on a shoulder when you got a stiff
t-spine you wouldn't you'd fix that too
why would I work on your low back if
you've got insomnia it's I'm not going
to win the insomnia is going to win so I
don't have to be a sleep expert a
nutrition expert a breathing expert to
do this I know the minimum acceptable O2
sat I want to see at night it ain't
going below 97 you know if if things are
good I need your heart rate variability
to be here I don't want you running a
temperature at night I don't need you
eating after eight o'clock all these
things are an inflammatory burden that
that e-stem and Ice ain't gonna
take care of so I just talk unbelievably
plain like that to people and when they
go reference me you know on Google
they're like wow he's getting ahead of
the game that's that's how you
distinguish yourself in the market
um where you you consider the service
high value yeah so wow that's awesome
it's incredible
um gray before we wrap up is there
anything else you think uh people
listening should know about or anything
else that maybe I didn't ask you about
that we should uh finish with
no I
those those people listening that are in
a practice a practice where I guess
you're the chief and you got at least
one two maybe five or ten Indians right
right I have always pulled my team close
I would rather have 10 clinics with
small teams than an equal number
employees Under One Roof because
it's easier to serve people with dialed
in teams
I empowered my ptas and my atcs and my
texts to do as many of my tests as
possible
not because I'm too good to do it
because I I think the level of letting
your uh staff like one of my ptas best
manual muscle tester we used a jtac
device handheld manual muscle tester one
of my ptas was
um low back uh as far as the low back
exercises and stuff like that they just
had roles but you know in this book the
business and movement we have uh
Chiropractic text videoing the top tier
the sfma we've got atcs helping my
discharge with a movement screen
um right now uh we've got texts that
feel very comfortable having
conversations with our clients that do
have wearables as a matter of fact there
are apps where we can track the the
domains they want to work on so the very
first thing I do when I get new
opportunities is I don't do those in my
exam my exam is already full you know
everything that we're trying to look at
so the on-ramp to get to me should
unpack valuable information that makes
my staff feel like way more than an
usher from the waiting room to the exam
room no you are part of this unpacking
process and when I send you out to the
gym because I got another exam
that that unpacking process that
exercise is going to go smooth because
we all train together we all know the
metric so I never did my own manual
muscle test and I rarely did my own
balance test but I deferred to who did
the test so if I thought I did something
to change balance and send them back out
for a repeat and it wasn't better I
owned it my PTA said now balanced didn't
change I gotta own it in front of the
patient and in front of them now part of
my job is make sure that doesn't happen
too often but as long as it's happening
less than 20 percent of the time I'm an
expert yeah so so that so that believe
it or not if you've got somebody who's
building a staff and building a team
you got to own that book first you got
to walk the walk first and you got to be
willing to consume the services that
you're providing once done
you got to take care of each other so we
get a new screen we get a new app we get
a new test we do it in-house on a
Thursday night over pizza and see how do
we unpack this how do we talk about this
how do we value this one of the first
things we came up with is we're doing an
sfma on every person in this Clinic
and that created a huge obstacle I said
well we ain't got to do it on day one
if they're post-surgical they're acutely
inflamed and they need a big old bro hug
and the fact that everything's going to
be fine and we're going to get some
swelling off this knee and I get an sfma
today then I get into ybt today they're
getting good physical therapy today
they're getting some self-care and if
you come back and this thing's this
swollen you I know you're not you
haven't done anything I told you to do
so do we have to be functional movement
systems day one no but before you're
done here we will be and that's where I
all the excuses of not doing Advanced
functional metrics are all time
constraints and I can't do this on day
one
it doesn't matter what their sfma says
if you're acutely inflamed and you're
not weight-bearing why do I care about
doing a functional test today
we're doing lymphatic drainage today bro
I mean the patient will go like why are
you looking at that this is where it
hurts and it's it's uh and then even if
they're acutely painful it's just going
to mask all the movement uh faults
because it's the pain that's controlling
the movement right exactly exactly and
so you know a lot of people will say no
it's the other knee and I'm like this is
my Baseline right I'm not saying it's
perfect but it's the only other knee you
got so let me start on the good side and
it creates a humorous interplay but
but yeah if a mechanic only looks at
what you point at on your car they're
not as good as the guy who walks all the
way around you know and and takes in his
own information while still listening to
what you said right that's the
difference yeah that's great so great if
someone wants to uh find you I know
you're kind of hard to find online but
like what's the best place to find you
online and if they want to get a copy of
the book where should they go to find it
um uh Amazon uh is is easy and if you
like to listen to books like I do it is
now on Audible and the good news is I
only read a small portion of the book
Georgie fear does a great job with the
read and and the story and I almost wish
that even the parts that I read for the
book now she reads too the cool thing is
the way we built that book is uh you've
got a qrl code so you get to the end of
a chapter and you just want to hear me
do the summary maybe even practice for
the way you talk to your staff or
patients run that run your phone right
over that it takes you right to the
video so I tried to make the book as
interactive interactive as possible and
and really sort of restructure your
practice because the Hidden Gem in that
is if you're already a competent
musculoskeletal practitioner then the
skill set I want you to get is not more
musculoskeletal you need to Pivot and
adopt a wellness umbrella so all
questions of Wellness are redirected
back through your thought process but
you're not going to be able to charge
the same for wellness as therapy but I
honestly think it is an asset to
transitional discharge and people who
may not be able to afford a deep dive
um I think we've got to build that
bridge so much of what we do in
musculoskeletal medicines and in silos
right and there's a silo of Health Care
and there's a silo of Fitness strength
conditioning and in between those two
silos lives everybody else right because
they're they're not fit enough to do
what they want to do and they're not
sick enough to get physical therapy but
they can't touch their toes they can't
Squat and they're riding a golf cart
instead of walking like they promised
their wife they would so you know there
I think there's an unbelievable subtle
Wellness message in that book that shows
you how to use the same resources staff
models to give people a little therapy
and a lot of Wellness instead of a lot
of therapy and a little Wellness I
really think that that I would I would
be more than happy to unpack this again
if some people dive into the book and
then and and say where where are my
opportunities here but I think they're
going to be obvious I really do awesome
I'd love to do that and I think and you
and Lee have a podcast it's called
movement pod where does someone go to
listen to more about you guys talking
about FMS and all that yeah
movementpod.com and here's one that that
I'll throw out to your clinicians right
now when gray cook unpacks his own
stress recovery cycle yeah I don't have
a problem finding activity stress or
steps in my day I have been a poor
sleeper most of my life I've had
seasonal allergies and I've been a binge
eater with uh probably a little bit of
hypoglycemia
my musculoskeletal system runs better
when I do my recovery better than when I
have access to the best soft tissue
people in the world and I have both
I can I can get dry needled by the best
people in the world but it's better if I
just take care of myself and Lee and I
approach the stress recovery cycle
dilemma where I honestly think that the
more access we independent practitioners
have to signs of good recovery now I use
the balance test and grip test as a
recovery indicator but when I've got
somebody with an aura ring or or another
wearable I incorporate that data
immediately into how I challenge them I
would almost rather people do better
rest in recovery and not do home
exercise if they've got to make the
choice now if they're going to do home
exercise all the better but that's how
passionate I am about how many toxic
Lifestyles I've had on back in the last
eight years of practice from pro
athletes all the way down to a farmer I
saw last week it's oh my gosh the toxic
lifestyle is a bigger burden than the
musculoskeletal issue but they're here
and this is a musculoskeletal issue and
it's where their focal point is so all I
got to do is sell them on the Upstream
Behavior and the downstream outcome
we're shooting for so yeah yeah that's I
mean I've I've found a McDonald's uh
like cup and like wrapper and Fries like
full in one of my trash cans one time I
was like where'd that come from you know
and I think it was like a patient I had
to talk to about you know she had like a
chronic uh fatigue and a bunch of things
we talked about lifestyle and I think
she had had that must have had that in
her pocket that day and I was like oh no
did I go too hard on that for her but
there's a balance there and I think that
was one of those moments where I had
like I knew that this lifestyle was so
much more important than anything I
could do with my hands that day and it's
like there's a balance for people I
think about how we address it uh I don't
know I think that's uh no I'll give you
I'll give you one quick story and this
is way before this is 15 years ago I had
a I had a um patient she's a single mom
limited to six total visits for low back
pain
we we could see her in the evening we
were seeing some athletes and stuff like
that my very first visit she had a
distended abdomen and a lot of
touchiness to her abdomen yeah low back
pain typical bad core a lot of things
going on but she also made some comments
as to her back pain was worse and she
was frequently constipated and stuff
like that and I just talked about her
diet and I gave her the the inflammatory
food talk and she goes really and I'm
like I tell you what if it's white just
don't eat it for two weeks right and
since you've only got five visits left
with me let's
I want you to take every bit of time
you'd spend coming here manage your diet
and and just literally let's get the
inflammatory foods out of your diet
she was very uh concerned about
her distended abdomen yeah and uh I
measured her midline umbilical
she dropped four inches in her waist in
two weeks wow and didn't drop a pound
meaning her body weight was the same
she was also 50
Less on her low back pain rating scale
her single leg stance was better and her
toe touch was almost complete I still
had a bunch of work to do on her hips
but I waited on those other five visits
to let her realize that there's no way
in six visits without you eating better
and realizing that that was part of the
problem that that this is going to get
here so that was me sort of laying up in
physical therapy because she could have
easily quit before I collected for those
other five visits right but I honestly
cared and measured her and told her I've
experienced this personally I've done
this with other people I don't want to
be right I I if this is all low back it
is but I gotta I got a bad feeling that
a lot of this is is lifestyle and she
she bought into it she she did and like
I said I don't even think we needed the
five visits I put her once a week for
for five weeks which insurance doesn't
even do with that back in those days
right that I'm trying to save you money
and do them a turn too but anyway that
is an early Crossroads in my career when
I'm like listen there's no such thing as
a family doc anymore there's no such
thing as a you know you just talk to
your neighbor over the fence and get
your counseling that way right
everything is a formal therapeutic
relationship this is this is how I
unpack your back you know I'm gonna fix
your gut first right right no that's
incredible that's a great story and and
thank you for sharing great this has
been uh really um awesome to have you on
the show to hear about some of the
things that you're doing what you're up
to and how
um kind of the systems and uh strategies
that you're using have helped you with
your business your practice helping
people so thank you again for spending
time on the show with us today I really
appreciate it no thank you and our
workshops are easy to find we do them
virtual you can do online at your own
pace or every now and then we still do
live workshops but we're finding the
virtual we're having a lot of
um good case studies meaning we teach
the course and unpack a case on those
the podcast I think our most popular one
this season was on low back
um so the most recent one was stress
recovery we've had a lot lot of we've
had Kelly starred on there we've had
Katie Bowman on there and these are
people I'm just personally interested in
in their own turn to movement so if
you're if you're into some of the
movement topics we unpack you can watch
them on YouTube and listen to them on
any uh podcast thing the audiobook can
be uh gotten on a Kindle or paperback
and it's also uh Audible and um you'll
if people lean in there's going to be
some some new stuff coming out of our
camp pretty quick in education and
resources so great I think and I think
that we talked earlier what we're going
to do is as this episode comes out we're
going to run a contest on Instagram for
a couple you're going to give away a
couple signed books and I think I even
got Matt to agree to some swag or
t-shirts or something to put in there so
if you guys are listening right and it's
this episode's just come out go uh check
our Instagram at Aaron LeBauer and Grace
uh what the movement pod and we'll have
some information up there about the
giveaway and how you can enter to do
that yep and anything you want to see
from what we do functionalmovement.com
that's the website everything we've ever
taught or done is somehow uh on that as
well so yeah it was awesome well it's
been a great it's been a huge resource
to me in my practice and our patients
here and so one I just have to thank you
for for that because I came into PT
already knowing how to do manual therapy
because I've been a massage therapist
and it was the missing key that I didn't
get in PT school about how to create
like become a better sniper and
clinician but also one of the things
that really impressed me when I came to
your first course was I think Kyle was
up there he said this is uh what you do
before your manual therapy intervention
no matter whether it's you know needling
MFR or anything it was very inclusive of
all the interventions and I really
appreciated that too so thank you well
no and and I I want to say this because
I think one of your talents uh is not
just
business I think that you represent what
I like in in a clinician who's also
running a business well enough to advise
others you became effective
before you obsessed on efficiency and
I've worked for a lot of big hospitals
and a lot of healthcare organizations
that brought me in for efficiency and
didn't allow me to upgrade the
effectiveness and I'm like hey if you're
selling it doesn't matter how cheap
it is right so at some point we gotta
raise the bar and then the market the
environment and our own
need for efficiency will slick this
process up but but you gotta get more
effective than your competition and you
won't do that efficiently you will
become efficient but if you're not
better than them you can't afford to out
advertise them so it's almost a losing
game so I commend you on that the fact
that you got you knew you had a very
effective manual therapy touch and
enough feedback to say all right now
that I'm probably delivering a better
result I got to get that efficient or I
still won't be able to compete but I
think most people put efficiency first
and they they burden themselves and
their staff and and but there is
something exhilarating about taking a
small staff and becoming significantly
better than your competition before
anybody knows about it yeah and and then
they will so they will you know the work
speaks for itself but also it's the uh
you know yeah it's the being effective
and having great work but then also
being will say here's the one thing that
you need to work on I don't need to
overburden you with in your home life
you just do these one or two things and
it just people go wow like that well
people used to do that in our own
Community they'd be we had a I think we
had an old guy laying on a table one
time in the clinic and there was a
NASCAR driver on one side and an NFL
player from Green Bay on the other side
and he's looking left and right like
what are y'all doing here and they're
like hey this is this is this is where
we get our answers and it was one of
those things where the funny thing was
he was impressed yeah but we as the
staff were doing the exact same thing
five years earlier before anybody
noticed so our standard operating
procedure that brought those guys in
from hundreds of miles away
had not changed since the day we did it
it was just the after effect and ripple
effect of what we had done right yeah
wow so again number one lesson is uh
stay in the game don't quit keep going
quit if you got something that's working
don't quit yeah right no and you know
what if you're effective you won't burn
out you may overwork yourself sometimes
but if you're transforming lives and
you're doing it in a good way you won't
burn out I find that burnout is most
endemic on people who don't feel they're
making a change or don't feel they're in
environment environment where they can
my dad told me that I was in a practice
one time and we were having a heart to
heart and he said do you trust who you
work with and I said no he goes get out
and then I hit him with like 16 butts
but I got a house and I got a farm and I
got that he goes you didn't ask me that
all right get out and and he was right
and it was the best move I ever made FMS
happened two years after that wow so
that's incredible well great I'd love to
keep chatting with you but I know you
got to go and I think I got something
coming up too so if we need to do this
again I'd love to do that to unpack some
more but I really appreciate you being
here and hey everyone go
um go to Instagram check us out look for
that giveaway but go follow gray
movement pod and the functional movement
I think you guys have a Instagram for
that as well
their their courses and programs have
been really helpful for us and many of
our clients so
um thank you for joining us great thanks
again don't quit keep going uh find the
effectiveness of the effectiveness
before the efficiency and uh don't stop
never quit and we'll see you on the next
show thank you so much thank you
[Applause]
thank you
