have an understanding of what your risk
is if you choose to see someone when
this rule and law hasn't really been
tested in court this is from Stacey Lee
she said I just had my first Medicare
patient call and say that he didn't care
that I was private pay only money is not
a problem and he just wants to get help
with walking and pain in his hip so
frustrating that I had to tell him I
can't see him but will refer him to a
friend who takes Medicare is there still
no change in the silly Medicare
beneficiary rule yes there is still no
change to answer your question there's a
couple things you can do like if this
person just needs help with walking you
know and some stretching you can see you
can do exercise instruction fitness
personal training with them however if
you're gonna go down the road of
utilizing one of the exceptions to the
Medicare rule there's a few things you
need to do you need to be really
well-educated on the Medicare policies
and procedures and how it relates to
cash based practice you need to have a
payment like a Medicare consent or
agreement that pretty much I think
everyone signs and you need to be very
clear with patients that what you're
providing is not covered by Medicare or
secondary and probably most importantly
what you need to do is consult with an
attorney or your attorney to discuss
kind of the ramifications and your
personal your risk tolerance and where
you lie in this swath of grey between
Medicare coverage service and non
Medicare cover service and medically
necessary and not medically necessary
and can I treat this person or not and
by doing that I think you'll be well
educated on the topic and have an
understanding of what your risk is if
you choose to see someone when this rule
and law hasn't really been tested in
court is it
and if there's some information in the
Federal Register and understanding and
interpreting that is it takes for quite
a while just a like a few minute answer
the best thing I can do is say read up
about it you know there's an information
on my blog about Medicare that I can
post here as well or posts for you if
you want to learn a little bit more
about that
yes it's still the same and patients
won't get it a lot of pts won't get it
and one of those things that people told
me when I first started practicing like
oh you know you can't treat Medicare
patients in cash practice like what are
you talking about like this is
ridiculous
as a massage therapist I can treat them
no matter what now I'm a PT and now I'm
limited it doesn't make sense it's not
financially beneficial to CMS to have
this rule you know if patients pay us
directly then they don't have to send
the patients any money I mean it should
save them money but it's just not a top
priority for a lot of people
[Applause]
[Music]
