one of the biggest questions people ask
is well what's the deal with HIPAA and
how do i train my front desk so they
convert callers into patients and they
don't mess up the whole privacy thing
hey welcome to this video about
telephone and desk etiquette for your
front desk team and HIPAA compliance
training be sure to subscribe with the
notification Bell down below and let me
know your questions in the comments my
name is dr. Erin lab Bauer I'm a
physical therapist a business coach and
own a physical therapy practice here in
Greensboro North Carolina so let's start
off with some basic front desk etiquette
number one the customer is always right
it makes sense the customer's always
right well what does that mean it means
that the customer always gets what they
want that doesn't mean they're
necessarily right so if someone calls in
and they've got a problem then you just
tell them you say yeah I'm gonna handle
it so train your front desk to say you
know like I agree or I understand you're
struggling or I'm gonna handle it and
then that makes the customer feel heard
the customer's always right means the
customer feels heard okay this is kind
of part of a sales process too so let me
go into HIPAA real quick so HIPAA is the
Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 remember when
training front desk on compliance issues
like HIPAA and Medicare this stuff is so
confusing even it's hard for me as a
health care provider I haven't had a
conversation with the Blue Cross Blue
Shield sales rep about a year and a half
ago just verifying our benefits for our
employees and I was like you understand
that I'm a healthcare provider and I own
a health care business and I'm having a
hard time understanding this you said
yes
so in training your front desk what they
really need to know is what are the
outcomes like what is the problem that
could happen if they mess up what is the
best thing that could happen so here's
the thing there's protected health
information or personal health
information pH I and so Hippo was put
into place to protect people's
information as they left one job and
went to another so they could maintain
health
surance it's not necessarily about
privacy of tucking and asking questions
with people on the phone so if a person
calls and they want to ask about doing
business with you
yes there's lots of questions you can
ask now here's the thing as is a great
customer service representative and the
best front desk etiquette would be yes
mrs. Jones this is what you just told me
here's my bla bla bla and they would
repeat it back it's called active
listening well if you're in a room with
ten other potential patients then
repeating the person's information and
their date of birth and all that stuff
as well as their problem could be a
HIPAA violation now if you're doing your
best job at maintaining privacy then
it's not a HIPAA violation don't even
really need to worry just make sure that
is you train your staff they understand
that when they do repeat back
information if it's gonna be in a room
where there's it's quiet and there's
five other patients work fifty other
patients and they're going to hear it
then
that person needs to be in a separate
more private area because getting back
to the customer's always right
when it really means as patients need to
be heard and one of the best ways to
help them feel heard is using active
listening techniques so an active
listening technique is something where
you've asked a question and you say mrs.
Jones just so I understand what you told
me is is that your back hurts only when
you go on the walk and then when you
pick it up and you're afraid that this
is gonna get worse unless you speak to a
doctor right yes okay and then it might
be mrs. Jones you told me your phone
number is three one three six two seven
one six six seven seven and they might
go yes
but instead of repeating it back out out
loud what you could see you is say miss
Jones I've got your number can you
repeat it back to you to make sure I
have it correct so now they feel heard
without you divulging privacy does that
make sense
so one of the most important things
about training your front desk is
sitting upside time to actually train
them on a regular basis and do
role-playing especially when you're
considering having them be a part of
your sit
process like they are in art clinic even
in healthcare we do sell and selling is
our obligation to sell physical therapy
to patients who need it if a patient
doesn't need it then we're not going to
try to sell them something they don't
need they might want it that they don't
need it so what we do is we'll do role
playing
we have scripts and I'll have them go by
their cell write out a script here's how
you answer the call well here's one of
the things that can happen is they just
live and die by the script which you
should but they never varied from it and
that creates a very impersonal feeling
so what you need to do is train your
front desk using scripts and then give
them training so that they can vary the
answers or the or how they're conveying
the next questions so they know okay oh
I can go down this path or this path
most of the times people who say hey sit
on that desk
answer the phone they give them no
training and people go hello who is it
rather than hello this is amber from lab
our physical therapy how may I help you
today
so those things come across really
important someone walks in your door
front desk person needs to stand up and
greet them say they're on the phone they
need to still acknowledge the person
who's now walked in the door here's a
really sad story myself I was in a
medical providers office and get off the
elevator and I turn right and I see the
the front like administrative and it's
got a bunch of glass pane windows a
couple little holes in there and it has
a big stop sign it says stop below says
turnaround and sign in on the computer
so I turn around I go to this 25
year-old looking computer it takes me
about three minutes to sign in and then
it says okay if you're with this
provider you're gonna turn left if that
provider your turn right you go and you
turn and you sit down to wait for who
knows how long and no one has once
welcome to me into the practice engaged
me in any way there's no personal
contact that's like if I didn't have to
be there I would have left so don't let
that be the experience that your
patients or customers get when they walk
into your business and the best
way to do that is have someone
well-trained as a front desk staff who
is comfortable with sales comfortable
having conversations with people kind of
you know like fun bubbly outgoing
energetic who can just kind of like not
talk their ear off but engage them in a
happy cheerful way and it makes people
feel like calm and at ease because if
they're coming into your business for
physical therapy or surgery or some you
know even like pay alone like they even
feel uncomfortable you want to greet
them nice and comfortable and that's one
of the most important things you can do
so you need to hire people based on
their ability to be trained and their
personality and then some of these other
pieces just really they fall into place
once you find like the right person and
your to fit those boxes so really a lot
of the front-desk training that you want
to do is you want to train them on their
systems for answering the phone how do
we call people back how do i greet
people when they walk in what if someone
calls and they have a problem they need
to be able to learn how to use active
listening techniques they need to be a
part of your sales process because
believe it or not whether you want to be
in sales or not you are and that person
is one of the best closers because
they're not you and they can come up and
reinforce your sale or your program or
they can take someone into a down sell
does that make sense so go ahead right
now comment below your number one
insight or questions so far and while
you're there be sure you hit the thumbs
up and subscribe to the notification
bell so when it comes down to HIPAA
again one of the ways that we maintain
privacy is we use a online intake form
system it's called intake queue there's
a link below if you want to get a 20
percent discount on your first three
months and a two week free trial I'll
put that below but we use that because
what it does is it sends out a secure
link they fill out their forms and it
sends it back to us
now we've trained our front desk staff
on how to receive the intake forms move
them from intake queue into our Google
Drive system which is HIPAA compliant
when you I think you paid like 12 bucks
a month and you sign a baa boom
front desk doesn't need to know that but
she's got a training video to show her
exactly how to do that
and so with all these systems one of the
things that we do is we have a
alien-abduction manual and it's a
spreadsheet with kind of lists of all
the different tasks or the video for
each task in a checklist for each task
in each so as the task and it has the
link to the video and a link to the
checklist and we do that for everything
so just think about this as you're
building your business what are the
things you do every day that are
redundant that you can hire someone else
to do for less than it costs you to do
it okay so maybe it doesn't cost me
anything
but I know that if I can go generate
$152,000 over here making a phone call
or doing a sales presentation and I can
hire someone for twelve to twenty five
dollars to do the administrative work
I'm not hire someone to do the
administrative work but they need a
system so the biggest part of training
them is creating your systems first you
create your systems and you make it easy
for them and it's the alien-abduction
manual as if they got abducted by an
alien and someone else could step in and
do their job there's another great
software out there that is called
processed street processed Street it
allows you to create these
boom-boom-boom-boom systems that just
repeat themselves
remember there's if you train them once
you shouldn't have to train them a
second time because they should have a
video and a checklist and if you are
training your first hire or your next
hire and you're doing it in person the
most powerful thing you can do is take a
video of you training them and take a
video using your iPhone to take a video
of like one of the training sessions or
using something like screencast-o-matic
which you can get for free for less than
fifteen minutes and then I think it's
$15 for the year or maybe lifetime for
unlimited time and the reason I like
screencast-o-matic is it has a little
yellow circle that follows the cursor
automatically you can use that to do a
screen share so as your screen sharing
like you
how you get the forms from intake you'll
put them in a drop box boom
boom-boom-boom
and you make a video you could put it on
YouTube but we put it in Google Drive
because they're private videos just
internal and we put links to those
videos everyone on our team has access
to it so we've got our HIPAA training in
there and if they forget here's exactly
what happens in this HIPAA training
Medicare training call training how to
take care of the clinic training what to
do close out on Friday how to fill out
our stats for the week etcetera boom
boom boom boom boom so I've got these
systems and we go through we hire
someone new they get videos they watch
the videos and they come in in person
and they train on them and not even with
me with the other people that work for
us does that make sense so the number
one thing remember front desk create a
system for them number two the customer
is always right and the way they become
always right is by using active
listening techniques and acknowledging
their frustrations and their wins and
number three Hippos not that confusing
when you understand it and for people
that don't understand it what they need
to know are just some simple pieces
don't use the person's name phone number
email in their problem or condition out
loud in public or sharing it with other
people who are not part of their
healthcare provider team does it make
sense very pretty simple if you're
looking for more resources on HIPAA and
details there's a link to my blog post
in the comments below where I would love
for me to do is share your insights as a
comment share this with a friend hit the
thumbs up and like with the notification
bell and I'll see you on the next video
have a great day
[Applause]
oh yeah PS if you want information on
the training system used to hire people
up with that below to buy
[Music]
