don't tell me that I'm not ready that
I'm not good enough because I can figure
it out
that was listening to a podcast
yesterday and the question came in and
basically you know the answer was like
hey I'm the expert and I'm gonna tell
you what's up and the experts basically
telling you you stop doing it
stop trying you're too green you don't
know enough you're not ready it's
ridiculous the problem is is that when
we hear these messages you're listening
to them when someone tells you that
you're not good enough that you just
need to get in the backseat and wait
your turn
what that really means is that you're
ready and they're scared
and this bums me out because you know
people are telling new grad physical
therapists all the time like you don't
have enough experience you don't have
you want if you started a practice on
your own you won't have a mentor in the
room like as if like you're dangerous
just know that if you need a clinical
mentor and you want to go start a cash
practice or an in-network practice and
you want to do it and you're like I need
a clinical mentor I got you you know I
got 5,000 people in cash big nation they
got you okay we got you go start your
business and do it
look I started my business my clinical
mentor was as far away as a phone call a
text and an email it's one of the most
frustrating things to me because when I
started my business like I started my
first business as a massage therapist
and pretty much everyone was like go
start a business
you're gonna go start a business you're
in a massage school and you're basically
just gonna start your own business when
I went to PT school it was basically
like no don't start a business it's too
expensive it's too hard you don't know
enough even though you're graduating you
know you might get in trouble it might
be dangerous you really shouldn't do it
like you really shouldn't do that and
I've had enough of that and basically
when you hear that and you start feeling
like and the people around me aren't
really supporting me there's two things
you need to do number one you
to get new friends and you need to
listen to new people number two you just
need to know that you're on the right
track if you're trying to do something
you're trying to be great
sitting at the back of the bus isn't
gonna get you there well sitting at the
back of the bus might get you there but
that's not where you want to be and but
that's where everyone else wants you to
be seeing the back of the bus will get
you as far as the bus is gonna go but if
you're gonna be great you gotta go
places where that bus isn't gonna travel
you've got to get off the bus you gotta
walk down the dirty path with broken
glass bunch of dry mud and a bunch of
holes and stuff and you just got to go
for it okay and everyone's gonna tell
you don't go down that path it's dirty
it's stinky is broken glass there's a
bunch of grass it hasn't been mowed in a
long time you know what you're gonna do
you're gonna walk down that path and
you're gonna find that's where the pot
of gold is that everyone's been looking
for you know because you took the risk
successful entrepreneurs aren't gonna
listen to that kind of crap and if
you're trying to figure it out or you're
in the game and in your struggling what
you need to do is you need to get around
people they're gonna tell you what
you're doing is right and they might
reflect back on you like hey don't you
think maybe you're what if it what if
you tried this like they're gonna be
supportive of you rather than telling
you not to do something you have
everything you need to be successful
right there with you right now let's say
you're a new grad look most people are
telling new grads don't start a business
well they don't know if you've been in
business in another career you know as a
present there's plenty rats that have
been personal trainers nutritionists
massage therapists before one of my
mastermind members was a social worker
for 10 years or more before she started
doing PT I mean it's crazy like you
can't make this generalization and it
just because you know you don't have the
same clinical skills that I do that you
need to wait five years or three years
or wait till after you work with a
mentor to do it because clinical skills
don't equal successful business
and some people good clinical skills or
great clinical skills can make them it
can can build a business but that's all
they're relying on you actually have to
have some business skills and knowledge
you can have great clinical skills and
have an unsuccessful business and I've
seen it and you can have mediocre
clinical skills and great business
skills and totally crush it you don't
even have to have clinical skills I know
a couple PT students right now who own
businesses and clinics if people are
telling you you shouldn't do it you got
to stop listening to them you got to put
yourself in a room full of people they
can support you you get your your
coaches your mentors your clinical
mentors your business mentors you get
them on speed dial and you stop
listening to people and say it can't be
done it shouldn't be done and you
shouldn't do it and you start listening
to the people and say great job keep
trying keep going for it success is
right around the corner open this door
just step through that window right
there and you'll find what you're
looking for
you
[Music]
