alright hey guys this is Brenna Erin's
assistant and content specialist I
helped run his Instagram and as you can
see we're about to launch our Akash
McKee business growth challenge we've
gotten some questions which totally
understandable it's basically like how
do I even start Instagram it's this is a
little bit too much for me how do I even
start
and so I want to make this training
because I knew that we we should kind of
give an overview of a couple of things
we want to know before we start the
challenge and that way you guys can be
more prepared and hopefully hopefully uh
you know get more clients through your
door and get more patients to call so
basically you've seen this page if
you've already opted in and these are
the prizes you've already seen these but
what we're gonna do is kind of go over
how to create an Instagram account
pretty much and kind of the best
practices in terms of like your bio and
stuff like that for your clinical we're
gonna use Erin's with our Beauty page to
kind of kind of show you what he did and
and see if you want to kind of do the
same thing and and go from there alright
so when you go to Instagram icon this is
the first thing you'll be greeted with
and so what's really important for those
of you who have a business Facebook page
it's super important to link your
Instagram your business Facebook page
because this is the only way your
Instagram account will be a business
account which gives you additional
features like basically viewing kind of
where your where your audience is coming
from who's view your posts certain
things like that it gives you a lot of
good numbers there's a lot of benefits
to having a business account and so the
only way you could do that is if you
connect it to your business Facebook
page so you have to already be logged in
I'm already logged in to Aaron's
Facebook page on this tab here and then
you all you can click is log in with
Facebook and for us because we already
have two instruments Aaron's within his
PT one that are connected to his
businesses click the log in with
Facebook wouldn't do anything because we
already have those accounts so I'm just
gonna fill this out real quick with
clinic information but what you want to
do if you have a business account is
click log in with Facebook and you'll
it'll take all your information over etc
alright so as you can see here I went
ahead and made just a test face or a
test Instagram account here and it's
important when you're coming up with the
name and username to have the name of
your clinic in there some people do have
kind of a personal account that there's
kind of meshes with their business and
that works that may work for some but I
think it's important to have two
different ones like with air and we have
his main one here which is the one I
helped run and this is basically for his
coaching clients for any pcs that want
to follow him and get this kind of this
kind of knowledge or than this one
libero PT is pretty much just for
patients and so this is the one we're
gonna be modeling after because
obviously as you can see this is the one
that that his patients see and that's
what we kind of want to be want to be
doing so here is the one we just made
just a test page and here's some kind of
examples of what Instagram kind of
recommends you do first but all we can
all we need to do is just go into edit
profile here as you can see here you can
change your name and user name again and
here's the bio this is probably one of
the most important parts and so as you
can see on labeller PT Instagram
basically this is just the USP of the
clinic and so it's basically what what
they do and who they help and so we're
just gonna use this straight up one and
copy it as you can see here he did when
Aaron was making this he put hashtag
Greensboro and I think it's important to
have hashtags in your bio especially
local hashtags and even in all your
posts it's good to have local hashtags
because that'll help patients find you I
mean for Aaron's online business here it
really doesn't matter because people are
coming all over but for this people are
coming from Greensboro or from
surrounding areas and so it's helpful to
have a hashtag Greensboro in there and
so we're just gonna copy that and put it
here for now
aleem could add more later but I think
it's a great starting point and
especially if even if you don't have a
USP yet for your clinic I think just
saying what you want to do or what your
clinic strives to be or whatever I mean
I think that's a great just to have
something your bio for right now and as
you can see you can put your clinic
phone number which is always good to
have patients be able to call you and
then your website and so as you can see
on here we actually have what's called a
link tree and if you we open this
basically it's a certain application
that takes you to this page and the
thing with Instagram is that you only
have you can only have one link in your
bio and as you've probably seen if
you've used Instagram at all everyone's
always like good's a link in my bio for
the newest video the newest this the
newest that and so it's always good to
have one Universal link that you can go
to multiple places on and so maybe for
right now and we also have one of these
on on Aaron's other Instagram it's it's
a made from a different software but
it's pretty much the same thing and so
it's it's great to have this and this is
basically just I mean each of these
links takes them to a different part of
the website so honestly at this point it
may just be good to start off with just
your clinics straight up your clinics
website and you can look in the making a
link tree super easy thing like this if
if you have to because we have different
parts it looks like like the blog etc
and so it may be looking definitely is
worth looking into this but for now it's
fine to just have your clinic's website
website there so just put with our PT
all right and so these may be
automatically filled in just another
disclaimer these may be automatically
filled in or changed or what have you
when you link it to your Facebook I'm
just having to make it this way because
so I'm having to make it as what's
called a personal profile instead of a
business one because like I said we
already have Aaron's face books and
stuff linked I don't want to make a
whole new face book and and stuff like
that so we already have this link this
may already be populated from stuff with
your business Facebook and that's a bit
better but there's just some tips on how
to fill the stuff out I'm just gonna hit
submit all right and so when it comes to
choosing a profile photo for and he has
him in his wife so obviously we're on a
clinic and I think that's that's awesome
to have the faces behind the clinic it's
it's up to you it really depends on if
you just want to use your clinics logo
etc I've seen plenty of people do that
here I mean obviously it's I think it's
great to have the faces behind the
clinic and even if you have your own
personal page I mean that's totally fine
you can save that for four pictures of
you but I think it's it's it's totally
up to you what you want to do with your
profile picture so I'm just gonna leave
our thing for right now but I mean
either way it's it's a picture of and
made me a pretty head shot of you guys
like it like this one is or a good local
logo for your clinic and even you don't
have a super great logo at this point I
mean just a photo of you I mean people
want to see the faces behind behind them
so I think that's awesome and so here if
you go there's a couple there settings
here like here's you know notifications
do you want to get stuff about Instagram
probably not but stuff like that then
you can authorize applications should be
Facebook should probably or should
definitely be under here if you just
made a business account and stuff like
that you can change your password and
you can manage contacts and here is if
you basically want to upload contacts
from Facebook it really doesn't
I mean Instagram now is it should all be
integrated once you set up the business
profile and then probably seeing
security just some stuff you don't want
to make your account private obviously
I'm not even sure if this is an option
when you have a business profile
probably not but if it is like I said
I'm not looking at that right now
because we can't do that right now but
don't private your account because that
that's gonna limit the people that can
see your account and people have to
request to follow you so if you have a
business that's never good idea so and
all this other stuff
let's just leave a loan it's just
additional settings in here and so you
can go back we can see the bio added the
website added it's a clickable link and
click on it it takes us right to the bar
PCs page which is awesome oh yeah that's
pretty much the basics on how to start
and just how to have a general bio to
start out with and and kind of the
different things you can add and what's
kind of important alright and in terms
of starting the challenge and what we
want to do I would say if you're brand
new to Instagram or if you just started
up your clinics Instagram and you've
used in scrum before but just aren't
your clinics one I would say go ahead
and post maybe one or two things so as
you can see here the very first photo
that that we posted on the just the PT
page like I said we just started this a
few weeks ago Aaron hadn't had a PT
lebar PT Instagram until a few weeks ago
so we're kind of doing this with you and
we're out we are going to be
participating from Aaron's
from this page we're gonna be Aaron's
gonna be participating in the challenge
and doing everything with you on this
page and then what we're gonna be doing
on his main Instagram is going to be
giving you instructional videos so check
both basically well we'll give you
instructional videos each day in the
morning and we'll post them on how to do
each of the tasks then on the PT page
we'll actually be doing the tasks that
makes sense so that'll be a great
resource to look at during the challenge
and so here the very first post they did
was just the same as like their profile
photo just on duran aaron and just
saying the USP again and just saying
what what you can expect to find on this
instagram page if you follow if you
follow us expect to find health tips
expect to find stuff like that i mean
and blog posts and just etcetera and so
whatever you want to be posting on your
instagram just kind of put it here like
expect to find here this is for patients
to do whatever this is for who is this
for and i think that's a great thing to
post for your first post honestly just a
photo of you and saying who you are and
whatever and the first day the challenge
will be kind of a video
explaining who you are and but I think
it'll be good just to have one post and
one post they're kind of before the
challenge starts and like you see we
post a screenshot not screenshots we
post just photos of our blog posts and
Happy Thanksgiving and just kind of
stuff like that and here's the post of
Aaron's of Emil Aaron had that was super
good and just stuff like that and he you
can see use a lot of hashtags in the
description
hashtag Greensboro is always good one so
definitely make sure to hashtag a local
your local area alright and so now I'm
just gonna give you some tips on how to
do some of the challenges because I know
we're basically like I said we're gonna
be posting instructions on Aaron's
account instructional videos that we
made on Aaron's main account but I think
it'll be helpful just to see kind of our
process of how we do some of the stuff
so in terms of I know the first day is a
video saying just kind of talking about
you know who you are and where you're
located and just kind of give us give us
an idea of what your clinic is and and I
mean it's this is for patients so this
is for patients who come near Instagram
they just want us who are you I mean
that's that's what they want to know and
the very first who are you and so
basically there's some tech tech stuff
that we use and you can use a bunch of
different apps we use I use in shot and
it was like $0.99 the app itself was
free but it was 99 cents to get rid of
the like watermark on the videos and
that was just a one-time thing of 99
cents there's also square fit which a
lot of other people use because when you
upload a video to Instagram it has to be
square because that's just how instrum
works and it just looks way better
aesthetically you can see all of Aaron's
videos here we we put text above and
below you can see for the blog post and
stuff like that text above below and
different colors and whatever and so I
use in shop for that and I'll go ahead
and move to my phone and I'll show you
how we do that alright so when you
download the app this is gonna be the
first thing you see you can see it says
Pro up in the corner that's because we
paid that $0.99 to get rid of the
watermarks but you I mean honestly you
don't even have do that you
we cover it up or etc but that's just a
one-time fee so it's not a big deal
all I gotta do is hit video and we're
gonna upload I just picked this video of
my cat we're gonna upload this video and
it shows you it makes it right into a
square so what you can do is add text
just put hey guys you can change the
font change the color and just move it
to the top or bottom and that's that's
as simple as it as it gets I mean we
also click video beginning and video end
to make sure it goes the whole way of
the video that's not default which is
kind of frustrating but that's what you
get and so I also add some more text put
it at the bottom you can see here and
change it color change the font
obviously you don't want to do two
separate things that look crazy but and
that's and like I said video beginning
whoops the new beginning oh my gosh
mm-hmm big fingers video beginning video
end opossum and then you could change
the other thing we do is change the
background so you can make it like
blurred or you can do colors all you do
is hit this little export button at the
very top right hand corner and then just
hit save and it'll save it to your
camera roll and you could post it to the
scram from there and I think Aaron kind
of speaks on this in some of his
instructional videos but I think it's
good to have a really good description
even just having like a transcript of
the video in the description we use this
we use a website called Timmy TMI and
it's basically just like a robot that
will transcribe any video you upload to
it and it's like super cheap it's like
for a video those five minutes is like
50 cents so it's super cheap you don't
have to do that obviously if it's just a
short interim video you can definitely
transcribe it yourself or you just kind
of explain what you talked about the
video in your description and in terms
of hashtags like I said I think it's
always great to have your local hashtag
it's always good to have just hashtag
physical-therapy hashtag whatever your
specialty is like we use hashtag dry
needling certain things like that my
official release etc and that's
something that that'll come with time
just it took me a while to learn kind of
the ins and outs of hashtags and and
which ones work and that's not something
to worry about really for this challenge
what we want to do more is just get your
name out there and start and start your
Instagram if you don't have it already
or get it
you know kickstart it and get more
patients to follow you and people to see
you so and then also right before we go
I'm also gonna the second day is making
an image on a free image software and so
I'll just kind of go through that real
quick and and show you that as well so
here is we use canva canva is amazing
it's completely free and like you can
upload any like we make every single one
of Aaron's images on this every single
one and all you have to do is just hit
create a design and hit Instagram post
and this is how we do all of his a
screen post I mean it's so easy and they
have different templates and they have
different templates and stuff I mean I
sometimes use these sometimes not I
always edit them a little bit more than
than they do because obviously they're
all none of them are perfect but like
even this one I'll just basically you
just edit a text you can change
everything you can change color you can
change font it has so many options and
then what we also do is just throw this
uploads and you can upload an image and
we also upload the logo and so we'll put
that like in the corner of the image or
whatever I mean it's so easy and will
sometimes put a picture of Aaron in the
back you can see that so yeah there we
go let's see all you do is upload an
image and all you do is just download it
and put that on Instagram and I believe
canva has an app too I mean there's so
many different apps you can do it all on
your phone so you don't have to worry
about transferring it from your computer
to your phone but there's so many
different apps out there and you just
free image software just like search
image or search Instagram photo text
anything like that I mean it's so easy
nowadays --nt it's so quick and you can
repurpose this content too as long as
you like I mean you can just have this
be the template for all your posts and
just like duplicate it and change some
stuff so I think it's great it's super
awesome and so that's pretty much all
the things I can think of right now to
kind of guide you in the right direction
to start this challenge like I said
Aaron will have instructional videos in
every single day on his main Instagram
page here and then on his PT page he
will be following along in the challenge
and doing those videos as well and so I
think that's gonna be great and yeah if
you haven't signed up for the challenge
yet I'll go ahead and put the link below
I'll post this on Facebook as well as
I'll send it all those who have opted in
an email with this video in it but yeah
go ahead and opt in you're not a hundred
percent tied down to participate if you
opt in don't worry it's just you get the
email with the rules and stuff once you
opt in and in more descriptions of the
prizes etc so yeah we're we're giving
away Aaron's like number one requested
course right now which is awesome that's
for the number one basically we're just
picking three three people that follow
through all five days and we're given
those away and so I think it'll be
awesome and a great way to start up your
Instagram if you haven't yet so if you
have any questions go ahead and email
basically just me at info at lebara
consulting comm or support they are
consulting intercom all those go to me
and I'll be happy to answer any specific
questions you have before the challenge
starts and hopefully this helps you not
be so overwhelmed because I know social
media is a crazy world we live in but
it's free marketing it's it's some work
upfront but it is free marketing for you
so that's what we want to do is help you
get patients in the door so I hope this
helped you and I'll talk to you soon
you
[Music]
