in the first year i generated 130 000 in
my cash based practice and in the second
year we did 500 000 and then this we
just wrapped up our third year we
generated over 1 million
[Music]
my name is dr ben boggy and i'm the
founder of prokinetics physical therapy
and performance we have locations in
oakland california san diego california
and then also des moines iowa
a lot of people when they're in school i
remember sitting down with one of my
professors when i was about to graduate
and they were helping me plan with
regards to what i wanted to do and i
told them i wanted to do cash-based pt
and they said that's not realistic uh
you need more experience and and that
wasn't the first time i heard absolutely
from family members hearing from friends
i was hearing from classmates saying
that oh there's no way that you can open
a cash-based practice right right out of
school especially when people are paying
premium prices you need experience and
build that
before before doing cash-based pt
so i heard about aaron's program uh
through his podcast so i was in physical
therapy school and i'd done my i did my
first i think it was my first or second
clinical rotation and i got experience
of what an outpatient clinic is truly
like and it's like i don't know if i can
do this i don't know if i can treat 15
20 patients a day day in and day out and
have an aide or an assistant spend more
time with the patient and it's like i
just don't this i don't know if this for
me and so i knew that their as like
there has to be something there has to
be something different if there isn't
something different i might have to go
to another profession or drop out of pt
school or go a different route because
this isn't what i thought physical
therapy was and so
i stumbled across aaron's podcast and
that's where i really started to absorb
some of this content
from there i went to a couple of his
free webinars and a couple of his free
downloads um that helped me a lot with
with getting started
i was hesitant to move forward with
aaron just because the the the cost i
really shouldn't say cost because it's
an investment and it was mainly just
weighing
is am i going to return on my investment
and i reflected on all the things that
he had done for me already just from the
free content and how far that got me and
i was like if his free content can get
me to where i'm at right now i can only
imagine what it's going to get me
with his paid
help and i'm so so happy that that i did
and i made that jump
because it's again it's an investment
it's not an expense and and if i if i
could go back and tell myself i'd tell
myself to do the same thing over and
over again each time
aaron teaches you a lot of different
things that you that you can't get
elsewhere a lot of its mindset really
comes down to mindset and truly
believing yourself especially if you're
a new grad a lot of times people are
worried about charging premium prices
for
um for the changes that they get for
their patients they're worried about
charging more than their co-pay or
worried that their patients won't pay
more than a copay to work with them so a
lot of its mindset a lot of its strategy
that you really just can't you just
can't get anywhere else because um
aaron's in my opinion uh the grandfather
godfather of cash based pt has been
doing it longer than anybody else has so
he has that much more experience
to help help you
avoid pitfalls and
and
help you transform your life not just
your practice but your life as well and
that's really what you can the changes i
see aren't just in my my practice but my
life as well i have more free time i was
able to grow and expand to
multi-practitioners multi locations and
it's really changed my life not just
financially but time freedom to be able
to enjoy more time with my friends
family
my girlfriend stuff like that so it
really it really helps you more than
just in business but really transforms
your life as well i mean we come out of
as i think i saw staff that the average
physical therapist has over a hundred
thousand dollars in debt and so i see a
lot of people taking the strategy of
safe safe safe and just just living very
minimalistic that's fine you can do that
but there's also another way and that's
increa increase your overall revenue
that you're generating to be able to pay
off your students certain loans faster
after working with aaron i had over a
hundred and thirty thousand dollars in
debt paid off in about two years it
wasn't by saving it was by betting on
myself investing in erin's program and
being able to generate more revenue in
my practice to in turn be able to pay
off uh my student loans and my student
debt the main reason that i enrolled is
i knew that i wanted to scale i'd heard
so many people tell me that it's not
even possible to start a cash based
practice let alone scale it and so part
of it was i'd already proven people
wrong with regards to that you can't
start a cash based pt practice as a new
grad and i wanted to prove people wrong
that you can't scale it and now to this
day we have three different locations we
have over five pts that are working
across these three locations and truly
started to to scale and to do what a lot
of people didn't think was possible as
most physical therapists know with
traveling physical therapy that's you or
in home health that's the main two areas
that you can that you can make or push
over a hundred thousand dollars um a
year but usually with traveling pt
you're seeing especially outpatient
orthopedic you're seeing high volumes of
patients and that's just not
self-sustainable so coming out schools
make about a hundred thousand from drew
and traveling but it just wasn't
sustainable i was already burnt out in
about 13 or 14 weeks in um then i
started this grow my cash based practice
in the first year i generated 130 000 in
my cash-based practice and the second
year we did 500 000 we just wrapped up
our third year we generated over one
million dollars and so that's allowed me
to yeah pay off over a hundred thousand
dollars in student loans it's allowed me
to invest in real estate it's allowed me
to
invest in in different things and other
avenues and have that time freedom as
well not have credit cards credit card
debt no debt whatsoever that's an
amazing feeling i went from being a new
grad just trying to get my first patient
and in under three years i'm to having
five physical therapists across three
different locations across the us we
have locations in san diego oakland and
des moines and we're continuing to grow
in scale
from there and that was all within
within three years so relatively a short
time frame i've made a lot of big big
changes in a lot of that's due to
aaron's health aaron's coaching program
has been the single most important
decision of my life because it's it's
really truly transformed my life with
regards to happiness on time freedom and
just overall quality of life
[Applause]
[Music]
