today we're going to talk about how to
grow a physical therapy cash practice
from zero to five thousand dollars in
just 30 days
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
my name is Dr Aaron labauer I've been in
business for over 22 years I started as
a massage therapist in 99 became a
physical therapist opened my physical
therapy cash practice right after I
graduated because on my first clinical
rotation I saw 43 patients in one day
and I knew that day I couldn't treat
patients the way that I wanted to or
they needed to be treated in a
traditional in-network practice you know
as a massage therapist people have been
telling me Aaron you're the first person
to touch me or hurt I've been to
dozens of physicians physical therapists
massage therapists chiropractors
acupuncturists Etc and you're the first
person to touch me or hurt and we're
talking like
VMO traps levator scapula infraspinatus
piriformis glute Mead I mean not places
that are super tricky to get to but that
no one was actually touching them and
helping them
and so I knew that day I saw 43 patients
and was
trying to work on someone's neck and
yell exercise across the room that this
wasn't possible no one was going to pay
me what I expected to be paid and treat
patients the way that I wanted to do
that so I launched a cash practice right
out of school I've never worked for
someone else as a physical therapist as
an employee and I've been coaching
others to
do the exact same for the last maybe 10
years since 2013 I sold my first online
uh product I had been helping people
with forums and blogs and stuff for a
few years before that so I started my
practice in 2009 and you know within a
few years people were asking me for help
I've helped launch personally launched
thousands of cash practices online
businesses
um helped physical therapists get out
their you know online monthly recurring
Revenue their in-person recurring
Revenue their businesses from zero to uh
10K 20K a month 65k months and even
million dollar businesses and people ask
all the time how do you get started
what's the best way the couple things
are is that people don't see themselves
being successful Beyond like what they
were earning in a job and one of the
hard Parts about coaching people
specifically people who want to grow and
grow fast is you're not seeing Beyond a
certain destination so what I want to do
is open your mind to what the
destination is which is you can generate
twenty thousand thirty thousand fifty
thousand even a hundred thousand dollars
a month in a Physical Therapy business
and in a physical therapy cash practice
but you might be thinking oh my God
that's just too much like I totally get
it so what I want to do is go through 10
like major strategies that you need to
do and follow to take your business from
zero to 5K months in the shortest time
possible in 30 days like this is exactly
what I do if I had to start over this is
exactly what I would do these are the
exact things that I would start with and
put into play and I know I could
generate five thousand even ten thousand
my first month I've had Platinum Master
my members
make a seven thousand in their first
month like Stephanie McMillan Owen did
seven thousand I think Stephanie did 15
10 12 000 in her first month I've had
other people come in and they start and
they make six thousand dollars some make
two thousand dollars their first month
some people don't make any
you know and it's nothing about the
people but it's the strategies the input
like just like our patients I don't know
what you're doing when you're not with
me what are you doing in the other times
but you only need a few patients to make
this work and I'm going to run through
the steps in this training on exactly
how to make it work we meet with our
Platinum Mastermind members for two full
days three times a year and even in that
amount of time like I I don't have
enough time there's not enough time to
do everything so in this training what
I'm going to do is I'm going to give you
everything I've got in the time that we
have and my goal is to help you get to
5K month in the fastest time possible so
then you can join our Platinum
Mastermind quit your job and we can get
to work on the hard questions the real
questions and the big questions how do
we grow this and scale it and not just
make money but help more people and do
it without you having to work twice as
hard because probably the hardest job
and the hardest time period is that zero
to you know 5K 8K going from 8K to 20K
isn't nearly as hard as zero to zero to
eight to make more money you do not have
to work harder you just have to work
smarter and doing it on your own is one
of those things where you're just going
to work really hard trying to figure it
all out and test didn't fail and
possibly get discouraged so like I said
what I'm going to do is give you
everything I can the time we've got this
training
is all about helping you go from zero to
5K months in the fastest time possible
so that then you have the cash to join
our Platinum Mastermind and reinvest in
your own business so we can grow it even
faster and get you even more time back
fair enough at the end like I'm not
going to actually sell you anything I'm
just gonna let you know where to go to
get more help if you want it cool if you
follow the exact steps in this video
you're going to be successful it's
called the cash PD Runway these are the
five things you need to have to start
seeing patients in generating cash
Revenue right away you have to have a
license to practice Physical Therapy you
need to be licensed in the state where
your patient resides number two you need
liability insurance there's a lot of
places to get it don't him and halt too
much American professional agency hpso
there's like cm and F it doesn't really
matter get a quote from all of them find
out who's the least expensive and do it
just don't spend too much time on it you
need a place to treat patients whether
that's in your home at the gym at their
home at their gym or you rent a space or
sublease of space
the number one thing that I want you to
know about this is do not give a
percentage do not agree to a percentage
of what you charge for rent there's two
problems with that one is like oh well
now maybe if you're in a gym you're
paying for referrals okay there's that
ethical piece and whatever like you can
use that as an excuse to tell the person
like if they insist on a percentage you
say look no I'm gonna do a flat fee um
but really what you don't want to do is
you don't want to give someone else a
percentage of your business so let's say
you're renting in a gym you're charging
75 an hour and you agree to let's say 30
right let's make it easy 25 and you're
like oh that's not so bad I make 50
bucks you know at the hospital I was
making 45 dollars an hour the space cost
me 25 I've got 50 I'm up five bucks
great this is fun
and then you realize that um okay
there's not enough money to move from
your job to this then you come coach
with me and I'm like you raise your
rates and then all of a sudden you're
giving away 20 or 30 percent of
what you collect and you're like if I
charge 150 now I have to give them fifty
dollars a visit and now now the rent is
doubled don't do that that's the number
one trap most people get into so just
agree to a flat fee something fair is is
is 20 to you know 30 dollars
forty dollars a visit I mean if you're
charging 250 a visit 40 is not that bad
but then you don't do that for every
visit in perpetuity you need to have a
cap so if you want to reduce your risk
you're going to say something like hey
look I'm going to pay you 25 per hour
that I use the space up to
I don't know 10 hours a week and then
I'm going to pay you a flat fee of 250 a
week you know and which is a thousand
dollars a month which is pretty high for
a one room depending on where you live
like you might be able to get like a one
small room like I'm standing in right
now that's big enough 10 by 12 by 12
with access to a gym maybe you can rent
that for 500 bucks a month just don't be
scared to make the commitment because
you're probably scared of making the
commitment to renting a space for five
hundred thousand dollars a month or even
two thousand a month because you don't
know how to charge enough for physical
therapy and we'll get to that in a
minute so just be aware of that that's
the number one place people trap
themselves you need a payment system
something like go card connect or maybe
it's built into your EMR don't worry
about the fees if you're worried about
the fees of taking credit cards you're
not charging enough it's plain and
simple it's a cost of doing business
find one set it up and just be done with
it I've got a in the cash PD blueprint
we've got a whole training on this
um and you can go through and use the
people that we've been using it's great
the GO card connect you can ask me for
the link you get a you know bundle of
free things or not but but just get one
you need to be able to accept credit
cards it's one of my pet peeves when
someone's like we don't accept American
Express the reason they don't is because
the fees are a little higher just raise
your prices 50 cents I mean done four
okay four you need a documentation
system something like intake queue I've
been using intake queue for eight nine
years you go to intakequeue.com forward
slash cash BT you get a 20 off discount
for your first three months on me
because they sponsored us at PT bizcon
they've uh been a partner with us for a
long time they're great you know but use
something even if it's Google docs for
your EMR like I've used Google docs for
my EMR intake you for online intake
forms and scheduling you need a place to
document even if you're seeing someone
for wellness or training you need to
document for you not for insurance
companies you need a document to
remember what you did and what you want
to do next time and to prove that the
person was in the room with you in case
there's any reason that you know they
want to contest that or or maybe they
file a claim with not just their
insurance but with um like
I don't know like a you know an accident
like they had a car accident
or something like that you need a
documentation system and in that you can
deliver a super bill you know you can
give them a super Bill to file a claim
on their own behalf so that's one two
three four five license to practice
liability insurance space to treat a
payment system and documentation system
beyond that you just need a willing
patient so the sixth thing gives you
need a willing patient I go through more
of the details like if you want to get
them you can go to cashptchecklist.com
it's got those things and it's just a
free download you can go get it it's got
the whole checklist of how to really
launch your practice it's exactly what I
use to launch my practice
and then I made it as a freebie download
that we've had 5 000 people download
which is kind of crazy it's cash
ptchecklist.com
I'll try to put these resources
below this video like any links that I
mentioned
um so that's the cash PT Runway you do
that like most people do that they get
my free book and they're like well good
to go great but does that get you to
five thousand dollars in the fastest
time possible there's a couple other
things that I think you've already heard
me hint at that we mean we need to touch
on like pricing and and rent and things
like that so I think the second module
in my course is mindset is everything
because it is we should spend a whole
day or week on this um but I'm not I'm
gonna try to spend like five to ten
minutes mindset is everything it is who
you believe you can be what you believe
you can do your outlook your vision the
people that are surrounding you and
who's feeding your ideas are really
important you need to understand that
just because other people open up a cash
practice across the street or across
town or someone else opens up a physical
therapy coaching business to teach
people how to launch a cash practice
there's plenty of people to go around I
mean people do that all the time people
live in their own world and
um if I had a mindset of scarcity I'd
probably stop doing it right be upset
with other people but you know what I
believe that cash practice is the only
ethical way to operate a healthcare
business we direct contract with our
patients there's no one else influencing
my decision making my critical decision
making other than me and the patient and
maybe I can confer with colleagues but
how I'm getting paid is not influencing
my critical decision making it shouldn't
and if you're letting the fact that you
charge a lot make you feel like you
should get people better in three to
five visits instead of the eight that
your grandmother would get you're
letting the money influence your
critical decision making so there's a
couple mindset things that we need to
talk about is abundance right scarcity
is there's one pie and the more someone
else eats the less I get to eat
abundance is I've got a recipe for
baking pies and I've got unlimited
ingredients and all we're going to do is
just sit here and bake pies so no matter
how many Physical Therapy practices or
cash practices open up in Greensboro my
Clinic's still going to do good no
matter how many which because there's
like I was the first I was like the
second maybe third not physician earned
practice in Greensboro 15 years ago and
now there's like eight cash practices
here plus a bunch of independent ones if
I was like worried about that there's
plenty of people here with back pain you
know and there's plenty of people out
there coaching people on how to launch a
cash practice I didn't have a recipe and
unlimited ingredients I might be a
little scared but I'm not because
there's I was just at CSM and I met
dozens of physical therapists that knew
nothing about cash practice and they
didn't know who I was and they were like
you're presenting a poster I'm like
thanks for thinking I look that young
right
um they just don't even know there's
plenty of people there's plenty of
people who have a problem that need your
help and if you think it's all about you
and it's all about like the people in
front of you you're wrong and you're
just living in scarcity and it's
probably maybe the people surrounding
you the world is abundant there's many
problems all you gotta do is find a
problem and solve it it's abundance
there's plenty of people and you just
need to understand that number two thing
that I teach is give to get you have to
provide value to get something in return
so what is value value is something like
let me send you patience you know hey
you know we're doing a thing let me uh
invite you along you know go shout out
another business ask them about
themselves Etc you need to be able to
give provide service
um a free lead magnet a training you
know those things are valuable hopefully
this training is valuable I'm hopefully
along the way giving you some
information more than you expected in
return whether you become a client of
mine or not someone else's someone else
I've never actually talked to might be
so it's about putting value out into the
world you know where you can call it
karma like I put out good karma in One
Direction and it may come back from
somewhere else it's not a two-way street
never never give when you expect
something in return okay you have to
have a growth mindset what does that
mean understanding that it's your
constant duty to grow because if you're
not growing you're dying even if you
stay the same inflation is right now
eight percent even if you're staying the
same when Goodyear's inflation is three
percent like you're still losing three
percent with just doing nothing
so you have to be growing but growing
doesn't mean that you have to work twice
as hard you just have to work smarter
you have to understand that there are
bigger opportunities out there
okay in your reference point might be
small or might be attached to the job
you had or the people you're surrounding
yourself with surround yourself with
people who are doing more than what you
want to do okay there's a money mindset
money like money's good money is not
evil money does good things for the
world you have to understand what you're
actually worth not what someone pays you
you have to understand that what you're
worth
is more to the patient than dollar
amount could describe
right and it's much more than you think
if you help someone get back to CrossFit
yeah great
but maybe you're helping Grandma be able
to walk up that
flight to you know or two flights to see
her grandkids like in Brooklyn
you know your family lives on the third
floor your patient's family is on the
third floor of a walk-up and grandma
can't get up there to see her babies
but you work with her
for you know three months and now she
can I mean
don't you think Grandma would part with
a couple thousand dollars to be able to
do that like I certainly do
and then we have to look at sales sales
is not a four-letter word it's actually
a five-letter word word sales is a good
thing
if you believe that physical therapy is
what someone needs it's your ethical
obligation to learn how to sell physical
therapy and to sell Physical Therapy
you're not actually selling physical
therapy because physical therapy is a
commodity that most chiropractors think
that we are just you as a technician
it's just a technical service they can
provide too sales is getting someone to
understand how you can help them change
their life and understand that you know
exactly how to do that and them seeing
that what you've offered is worth much
more than the investment they're about
to make in working with you sales it's
about asking questions it's not about
coercion or making offers it's not about
forcing people into a decision or
feeling yucky
sales is good because it's an
opportunity to ask questions for someone
to find out exactly what they want and
why
mindset you've got to be coachable
okay
I mean you if you want to do this all by
yourself you don't have to be coachable
but if you want my help even just by
watching this video you've got to be
able to go you know and Implement some
of these strategies to be coachable
means you're quick to ask for help when
you need it you're quick to take action
and Implement what you learn and you're
quick to share your wins and lessons
that's coachable if you sit on the fence
in Hammond hall or you come to me for
help or any other business coach for
help and you don't do the work you're
not coachable you're not taking action
you're second guessing yourself
you can go to people who you don't pay
probably not do the work
maybe maybe you're coachable maybe not I
know like if I'm not paying someone I'm
gonna take that advice but I'm gonna
still consider it and it's not gonna but
if I'm paying someone I'm just gonna do
whatever you say just tell me what to do
because I'm paying someone who's more
successful than me
you've got to be coachable you've got to
have a coachable mindset just like when
you were playing
um you know soccer or basketball or
baseball softball something you know
when you're on a sports team of some
sort or racing bikes you got to be
coachable
okay so that's number two mindset this
should be like a whole course I should
break these down into modules but I'm
not going to okay you've got to sell
programs and not packages don't sell
physical therapy in air quotes
because you can get physical therapy
down the street for a copay you need to
sell a program that no one else you know
offers in town total body restoration or
12 month ACL return to play your return
to play ACL you know Pro performance
package or something like that you have
to sell the outcome people want remember
I talked about sales sales about asking
questions so one of the things you can
do in sales is ask seven wise why did
you decide to come to physical therapy
because my knee hurts why is your knee
hurt something that you'd like to change
because it keeps me from doing running
okay why is running important to you
because it helps me feel
strong and in shape why is being feeling
strong and in shape important to you
because I want to reduce the stress that
I have from work why is reducing the
stress you have from work important to
you so I can be a good role model for my
kids you know so now we get down to the
real reason they want to change
the knee pain or problem in their body
so programs not packages don't sell
Physical Therapy you have to sell the
outcome they want so sell the program so
you got to find out why they're there
then you can create a custom program
around them a return to sport program
and back to the Box program in a minute
I'm going to share with you the sales
script and you'll see where this fits in
when you do this this is part about
pricing but it's our part about packages
don't don't discount the frequency of
visits don't be like would you like to
come in 5 10 or 12 visits and if you
come in 12 it's cheaper per visit that's
not Healthcare
that's personal training or massage
therapy that's that's Wellness Care
Health Care is I'm the doctor you need
10 visits here's a 10 visit program
you can do pay as you go or if you'd
like to save 150 bucks and you you want
to pay for your plan of care ahead
you'll save 10 percent
you know something like that
reward
their commitment
give them a discount on the commitment
to the plan of care so paying in full
for the plan of care that you recommend
not that they choose
don't give them a discount on the
frequency
you give them a discount on the
frequency
for something like massage therapy
personal training where it's a wellness
service
everyone always needs it not everyone
always needs knee rehab
got it okay so
you know just want to share a little bit
um I didn't do this for the first couple
but you know one of our Platinum
Mastermind members Hannah Schweitzer is
from Fort Lauderdale she actually moved
there from Tampa a couple months prior
to working with us her first month her
first week in our Platinum Mastermind
she did six paid in full plans of care
for a total of ten thousand six hundred
and five dollars which is dope because
she was able to take this script and
take these ideas ask the right questions
and discount the commitment not the
frequency
it's pretty crazy you know you've got to
have people coming in and calling you so
maybe that will happen your very first
week in business maybe it will because
it has
I've seen it okay number four is the
next piece it relates to this you have
to set the correct prices and use a
sales script your a user proven sales
script so you must be priced correctly
I'm gonna say for most places in the
United States that's at least 175
dollars a visit or more most of our
Platinum match my members are by the
time they're a few months in they're
charging anywhere from 225 to 350 a
visit depending on where you live I mean
in Greensboro North Carolina we're
charging 250 a visit
okay some members have like Hive come in
with high volume and they don't need to
charge 225 a visit to you know make an
extra 20 000 a month some members need
to do that some people stop at 225 and
they scale a little bit faster 250
they're interesting 250 to 25 isn't that
big of a difference but so people are
stopping at 225 already have like three
or four therapists and you have to not
just level up your mindset but everyone
on your team
but eventually they're in there but you
have to be you know if you're charging
75 a visit like you're not charging
enough
or if you're like well let me just go to
CrossFit on the weekend and let people
tell me where to needle and I'll charge
them 25 per muscle like don't do that
you're letting someone else decide where
they need to be treated and you're just
for better use of the word you're just
pimping out your ability to needle
people you know people aren't going to
respect you for that that's not
Healthcare right maybe people will pay
for it but treat them evaluate them
don't let that athlete who doesn't know
the human body decide where they need to
be treated you're just band-aiding a
service and
you're not using your critical thinking
skills or the reason you are a doctor
don't do that then the other reason you
shouldn't do that or sell physical
therapy or dry needling or myoflash
release or anything is because people
are going to price shop you'd be like
well I can get dry needling down the
street for a copay why would I pay you
150 225 250 350. if you're priced wrong
you're potentially leaving millions of
dollars on the table so I did this with
Derek Nielsen um I'll tell you about
Derek again in a minute but Derek was my
first cash PD resident and we went back
and looked at what he did versus what I
did
and Derek did 96 207 his first year he
he didn't price the right the way I um
recommended initially and he was
starting in a brand new town essentially
he did six figures his first year he did
15 000 his eighth month which that was
when he was priced correctly he did ten
thousand his first two months and we
looked and we went back and said okay he
did in eight months what it took me
three years to do I think and then we
went back and looked and I calculated
and he was like no don't do this I
calculated that in the first five years
of business I left a million dollars on
the table based on what I was charging
at that time versus what I started with
because I had no one supporting me I had
other um person I don't even remember
their name I was on a call strategy call
with them a few years ago they're from
Brooklyn one of the most expensive
places in America for rent
I think they were I think they had like
an eval at 175 and they were charging
125 for follow-ups something like that
it was August and I was like if we make
this change and just bump your prices up
so that you're charging the same across
the board you're going to make an extra
fifty thousand dollars this year and at
the time The Mastermind was even smaller
than it was but here I was trying to fix
someone's problem before they
paid me and you know she said no you
know so that's one of the things about
sales is in physical therapy and
coaching like you know what the problem
is
why people are struggling she was
struggling to pay her
3 500 a month rent she was had 25 people
to 30 people on her schedule a week and
she was burnt out
and she was ready to quit and I don't
know what the problem is
everything was right except for pricing
she didn't want to do it she left fifty
thousand dollars on the table I don't
know if she eventually changed to rate
but has she done what I said
that would have more than doubled what I
was asking you know in return there's a
mindset block there
so don't leave money on the table
so let me give you the sales script I'm
going to read it this is what our
Mastermind members use to get it paid in
full is what we use I'm going to read
this out Mrs Jones based on what you
shared in the conversation we've had my
recommendation is for you to get started
into our let's see back to the Box
programmer back to the gym return to
running back pain or total body
restoration program you'll be able to do
all the things you said you know run
squat play jump and feel like a good
role model for your kids so you repeat
all the things that they said that they
want
and avoid all things they say they don't
running and worrying about the arthritis
in your knees you know or not being able
to climb two stories to see your kids or
not feeling strong you know not whatever
they don't want because part of your
sales process is asking what they want
and what they don't remember the seven
wise okay so you
avoid this you'll be able to do this and
avoid that it's only 19.98 for the
program and if you decide to move
forward what that looks like is we'll
take you through a comprehensive
evaluation we'll create a personalized
treatment program for you send you an
email with instructions for your
customized homes treatment program and
get you scheduled for your visits so you
can get in the process of getting back
to running lifting squatting playing
whatever they've been missing out on so
that you can play with your grandkids
you know walk up the three flights blue
the grandkids how's it sound and Miss
Jones goes great okay how would you like
to take care of that
you know Visa American Express maybe
they ask about other payment options
where you say would you like to go ahead
and uh pay per visit or learn how you
can save 150 I think oh I want to save
150 well Mrs Jones if you want to save
150 all we ask is that you pay in full
for your plan of care today and then
we'll give you a 10 discount or maybe
it's a five you know somewhere between
five and ten percent seven percent so
seven percent of 1998 I think is like
150 bucks
I can't remember it I would if I was
selling this to her I would have all
those numbers memorized makes sense and
they go oh that's then they maybe go oh
that's expensive you're like yeah
so are we getting started today look I
need to think about it oh that's cool
Mrs Jones tell me just so I understand
exactly what is it that you need to
think about and they go well
you know I thought maybe was going to
take my insurance and blah blah you know
and then you can say well Mrs Jones
besides the insurance thing is there any
other reason you wouldn't get started
today no okay well Mrs Jones wouldn't
you agree that with your insurance you
told me you already had to wait three
weeks to get in to see someone else and
you were just doing exercises you
already knew how to do so wouldn't you
agree that the plan we put together is
the right one for you yeah okay and that
working with a provider that has time to
sit down and talk to you one-on-one and
figure out your exact goals and create a
program for you that you can't do on
your own at home is important to you
yeah okay well how about we go ahead get
started today get you some results
and then we'll check in in a few days
and see how you're after a few visits
and see how you're feeling okay sounds
great
done that's a sales script okay so how
do we get opportunities to pitch the
sales script
fastest way to do this this is like step
strategy number five is workshops
workshops and be in your community be
the person that's out in your community
you can you can do this hiding in a hole
you can kind of do it you know running
Facebook ads it's just going to be more
expensive you got to be out in front of
people you got to be in your community
and remember the whole thing about sales
and Community is it's just a numbers
game you're gonna get rejected more than
you get um accepted just understand that
like the Kirby vacuum cleaner guys or
Cutco knife guys they knock on 100
houses but they know they only need that
one house a day to buy three thousand
dollars worth of product
and they're they made their you know
commission right and when they're good
knock on 100 houses the five percent you
know three percent conversion rate they
get three houses to buy a thousand
dollars three thousand dollars worth of
stuff they're doing great
that's all we're looking for and you can
probably convert much higher than that
so workshops you gotta go be in your
community create your list like your
dream 100 list who are the top 100
people or even 20 people in your
community that you know who have
customers that are also your clients
never work out alone
okay for your first six months don't
work out alone work out somewhere new
every day in a group approach the
business owner teachers ask about them
you know say hey Mrs you know enjoyed
your class I've been coming here for a
few weeks or checked out your stuff
online I would love to know a little bit
more I'm a physical therapist here in
town
um I've got some patients that are
always looking for yoga and asking about
where do they go for yoga I'd love to
ask you some questions and about who I
can send over here is there a do you
have five minutes right now or is there
a time later this week we can grab a
coffee and then just ask them about
themselves how did you get into this
what do you like what do you do be
friends with them
you know don't try to get anything just
give by being friendly create a personal
relationship and then you can pitch a
workshop or injury assessment you know
one of the things you might ask is you
know do you guys have like drug just
drop-ins or do you do monthly
memberships oh we do we do both we have
monthly memberships
you know how do you handle it if someone
like gets injured in class or you know
do you guys ever have people come and
say Hey I want to stop my membership
because they're in pain and they might
say yeah all the time and then you might
say it was like you know so when that
happens what do you guys do
you know do the people ever come back
and they're probably like no not really
and you might say
would it be crazy to ask if
um you know you'd like to brainstorm
some ideas about how like we could help
with your clients who maybe get injured
they're not getting injured necessarily
getting injured in yoga they're just you
know tweaking their back working or
running or doing something out of here
is would it be crazy to ask if there's
something we could try to put together
or brainstorm some ideas about how we
can help them
so that they don't drop on their
membership yeah and you might be like
well tell me what are the common
problems or the common reasons and you
know then it's what if we put together a
web uh workshop on back pain for your
members would that be something you
think they'd be interested in and
Boom at the workshop you teach the let's
say it's a back pain Workshop you teach
the three three reasons
um common things that cause back pain
you take people through a
self-assessment like a squat and a lunge
and a twist
you know you're like if you have pain
with any of these you shouldn't and what
that means is you probably need an
assessment or a total body diagnostic so
we can learn exactly where it's coming
from as you can stretch this out all you
want but sometimes stretching isn't the
problem sometimes there's a motor
control or stability problem and in a
total body diagnostic we can tell the
difference between a Mobility problem
and a motor control problem a motor
control problem is your brain shutting
off control of the movement or area
because it's been injured or somewhere
else has been injured it's our body's
protective response and sometimes that
doesn't get restored even when the pain
goes away so you can explain that and
really what I'm doing with this whole
thing and like we could do a whole
nother couple hour class on this is what
I'm doing is I'm helping I'm not fixing
their problem for them right there I'm
helping them identify when they have a
problem they can be helped and improved
with physical therapy and what they can
do about it is that making sense okay
and then I might say hey I'm going to be
here for a few minutes after class
um if you have an issue you'd like to
discuss privately or personally
one-on-one I'll be up here and doing you
know five minute injury assessments and
from the injury assessment I might say
hey you know what I need to see you in
person in the clinic to really know
what's going on and create a plan for
you is that something you'd be
interested in they go yeah okay cool
well we've got time for five total body
Diagnostics this week and you get them
scheduled
and then you call them later go through
all the details about coming in and then
you run a TBD and then from the TBD you
pitch them into a planet gear Owen
Johnson is one of our Platinum Master
members who does this Owen
is the person that started his cash
practice like he left home health starts
cash practice and he made seven thousand
his first month he did 240
000 this first year his wife Jen is also
of PT and after six months came on board
started helping him with the business
and they've just grown rapidly and
Owen's done workshops recently where
they're going out and making 10 12 and
even 15K from one Workshop
but he hasn't only done five workshops
he's done dozens and dozens of workshops
in the year and he's got a proven
formula for him to help people to create
connections
and enroll people under their programs
and then I've had other members say hey
Aaron I just did three workshops and
they all failed well one did they all
really fail you know well how many have
you done like three okay is three enough
like from a randomized controlled trial
to understand that a treatment technique
does or doesn't work no it's not enough
volume so my advice is if you go and do
three or four or five or even ten you're
like oh they're not working let's do
more do three more
but what we have to do is learn the
lesson where was the bottleneck was I
mean did three people show up well
there's a bottleneck right there did 20
people show up and no one signed up well
what's the topic what was the reason
they were there was your offer the right
offer is there's a market message match
so we need to figure out where the
bottleneck is and improve upon it that's
learning lessons that's sharing wins
making 10K from a workshop and sharing
lessons like I did three and this is
what didn't work I did a fourth one I
changed this and this did work that's
sharing a lesson don't sell Physical
Therapy sell the transformation they
want sell the transformation that they
want I also want to share about
um Megan Simpson and Caitlyn Voss a
little story about them Megan had an
in-network practice
for years and she did millions of
dollars in Revenue over a million
dollars in Revenue a year easy it was so
stressful for her she ended up getting
sick and having an aneurysm it was just
like stress and you know one of the
employees she hired was great but they
both quit I think she sold out to like a
the hospital facility and got out of
that business I was like I'm never doing
this again
and then she started up a cash practice
and she brought in Caitlyn who she had
hired but they had both left
and together they started this
um cash practice in rural Tennessee
and it's a um mission-driven faith-based
practice and many people
especially you know don't don't think
that we should charge money for health
care services because that's unethical
everyone's right has a right to Health
Care
well you know everyone also has a right
to earn a good living and get paid for
what we do they restarted and they're
now doing 20K months and even more but
they started at 75 a visit because
they're afraid to charge too much and
we're struggling and how do you pay two
business owners when you're seeing 20
people a week at 75 a visit you you
don't but now what they've done is
they've created so much value and so
much Goodwill in their Community they've
got a really small community in rural
town and
they're charging 250 from a lot of
people and I think some I think when
they do travel or maybe weekends or
something they're they're charging over
300 for a visit in rural Tennessee which
is dope it's all because of the sales
script the value the fact that they're
doing in-person consultations and
conversations with real people and then
it's also how can they but they're how
can they give back to their Community if
one they're not charging enough to stay
in business and two they're not charging
enough to donate back financially
um one of Megan's missions is to adopt a
child in Africa and I don't know I'll
have all the details but I know like it
takes money and so some of the times
when she has a bonus or gets a you know
a commission or whatnot it's like going
straight to that fund right because they
have it's a purpose Mission and Purpose
Driven so my recommendation to you is if
you have a big purpose a big why a
mission you're part of a faith-based
community you know what do you do I've
worked with many people who are in this
situation one of my favorite strategies
is to just make you know hey ten percent
of of every treatment goes to your
church or organization or five percent
just make it a thing you know and I had
one uh member of our Mastermind lived in
northern New Jersey wasn't charging
enough he's like well I don't want to
charge more for members of the church
and I was like look put it on a sliding
scale because some people can't afford
it and they'll cover what the other
people can't otherwise he wasn't going
to survive because the rent is high he
was charging 75 dollars he didn't want
to charge more
okay great I want to give back to the
church okay great charge you know I was
like look we got to bump that up to 175
right but then just everyone from the
church who comes and pays you know just
they know that 20 bucks is going back to
the church or they can you know they can
ask to pay less based on their income
and then you can offer a sliding skill
and there's a couple other ways to do
that
but
it's the main point is is it's not about
physical therapy it's about the person
in front of you it's not the body part
it's the person in front of you it's
what they want it's a transformation and
you have to be able to the sales script
I gave it to you before it's about
asking questions and then making a pitch
and covering it so here's the other
little bonus I'll give you the number
one way to handle object like sales
doesn't start until you get your first
objection so if you do this script and
someone says yes let's go like great you
took an order your marketing you did a
great job marketing when someone says I
don't know it's a little expensive now
the sale starts and you have to handle
the objection and there's
like usually three objections okay if
you want another resource I mean we've
got objections trainings and all that in
our Mastermind but you want to go get a
resource that's not Aaron go get um by
way of the Wolf by Jordan Belfort
actually get the audiobook and listen to
it so the first thing to do is just
acknowledge that they uh acknowledge the
objection get on their side yeah I know
it is expensive or yeah I know it is
important to check with your spouse or
that is important conversation to have
and then what you do is you say you gain
Clarity well besides objection is there
any other reason you wouldn't move
forward with the program right now
because what we want to do is see is
that a smoke screen or is it a real
objection I'm like oh well I have these
other questions oh well okay now as a
smokescreen no that's it okay so if I
took that one off the table we'd be good
good okay
great like check with your spouse well
does your spouse support you in your
health goals yes has your spouse always
supported you and your health goals yes
you think if you went and asked your
spouse hey you know this is really
physical my knee's been bothering me
physical therapy is really important to
me and I found someone I really like do
you think they'd have any problem with
you coming here no okay
well Mrs Jones why don't you go ahead
and get started right now and then what
we'll do
you know we'll start getting you some
results you go home and check in with
your spouse and just let them know
you're coming here if they'd like to
come to the next visit with you to meet
us that's totally cool
so let's go and then what you got to do
is re-pitch and say yeah let's go ahead
and get started and maybe they'll go
okay yeah that's totally right like I
don't need to check with them and maybe
if they do maybe it's a well why don't
we you know set up another time you know
is there any other reason no okay great
um are they free tomorrow or are they on
are they free to get them on the phone
right now like maybe they can get them
on the phone right now and talk to them
sitting in front of you or maybe
together they can both come in the next
day and we don't move forward bass there
is that making sense and then they go
you handle the espouse objection they go
oh yeah but the insurance okay well you
know a moment ago you said spouse is the
only thing but now what you're saying is
really it's an insurance question
so you know it's just a lot of different
ways that you just got to go down those
little holes and each time you have to
make repitch
the next one
like I said we can spend a lot more time
on it and I know you're gonna have more
questions but
you can still get to that 5K a month
without really dialing that one in
okay to get the 20K months we got to
spend some time together probably on the
objections and sales
let's talk about working backwards from
your goal
so we do this with all our new Platinum
National members as they get started so
five thousand dollars a month is three
patients at a two thousand dollar plan
of care that's that's actually six
thousand dollars a month so if you're
charging what we charge which is 19.98
for an eight visit plan of care I mean
you could charge 1998 for a 10 visit
plan care it doesn't matter
three patients
once all you need is three patients
four patients at 1500 so if you did 1500
for eight visits 187 dollars a visit
we just need one new patient a week in
30 days
I mean don't you think you know more
than five people who need physical
therapy
I mean where was I the other day where I
was walking I was like everyone was like
oh I was a CrossFit and we're running
and everyone's like all limping and you
know doing their like uh wall balls like
wonky I'm like God like half the people
in here need some physical therapy three
to four patients that's all we need
in 30 days
you're gonna see our full all four
people on a Saturday morning four weeks
in a row
and all we need is them to you know pay
for their visits and you know
you know over time like they can all pay
in full that first month like you know
you saw Hannah you know did well she did
six paid in full plans of care for ten
thousand dollars you can get them all
paid in full or we can just get them on
your schedule and within 30 to 60 days
we'll have this five thousand dollars in
recurring Revenue so four visits a week
is a thousand dollars and you see four
people on Saturday four times in the
month that's four thousand
that's four thousand dollars
okay I mean that's not we're not too far
from that so that's all we need so one
of those people does paid in full and
three of them do pay as you go
you see them once a week
we've got to our goal makes sense and
maybe you're that kind of analytical
person's like Aaron's not right by one
dollar
you get what I'm talking about right and
it depends on how much you want to
charge so if you want to charge less
it's gonna be harder to get to that 5K
but it's totally possible
if you charge what we're charging and
you see nine visits a week in 45 visits
45 weeks of the year you're going to
make a hundred and eight thousand
dollars so six figures is
not that hard
it really isn't but like I said that
zero to five zero to eight that is the
hardest part because there's a lot of
work to do but to go from here to there
is hard and then go from eight to twenty
it's about creating better systems and
better strategies manipulating your
pricing and packaging and leveraging you
know systems and software and a few
other people so here's what we need to
do when you do a total body diagnostic
which is kind of like a sales call
conversation consultation
Etc
it's a we do it as a 30 minute 23 minute
visit we charge 75 for it if you decide
to enroll in the plan of care
we don't actually charge you for the TBD
we just charge you for the plan of care
so we basically tell them we'll we'll
apply the 75 to Planet care we don't
charge people the 75 before the visit
we only charge them 75 if they don't
want to do the plan of care and they
leave they pay 75 bucks
so
what do we need to do to get two new
patients a week
if you have four tbds in a week and you
get two you're converting at fifty
percent you should be converting tbds to
eval should be converting once you get
good 60 to 80 percent you'll never
convert 100 if you convert 100 you're
not charging enough or you're not
marketing hard enough
so look focus on how do you get five
tbds a week five total body Diagnostics
a week how many people do you need to
talk to or how many people need to call
you to get that how many injury
assessments do you need to do to get
five a week how many workshops do you
need to do to get
you know 10 injury assessments five
total body Diagnostics three new
patients
three new patients one week you're gonna
blow this out of the water
so how do we get that one new patient a
week let's get three tbds a week we
gotta have probably
seven or eight phone calls
or seven or eight injury assessments
one Workshop like a 30 person one Thirty
person Workshop you could do 10 15
injury assessments and get eight new
patients out of it I mean how do you
think Owen got ten thousand dollars and
we've done the same okay how many people
do you need to talk to or workshops you
need to do to get those five tbds so you
need to work backwards from your goal
and think about like what's your big
goal so Kyle Womack is one of our
Mastermind members who does this really
well he's done a lot of things really
well he wanted to move back to Hawaii so
he was trying to figure out how to do
that and you had a cash practice in um
Oklahoma City and he gets on call with
Jess Jess Jenny who's one of our um
coaches and and helps with everyone
start when they start their strategy and
gets on call with her he's like yeah we
move back to Hawaii I think I need to go
do my online course and she's like well
you already have a business that's
working for you is it making money yeah
she's like why would you shut it down he
was like well I don't know because I'm
leaving he was like well we've done that
with Ben boggy as well like Ben Ben is
the my first million dollar client who
had a six-figure cash practice in
Oakland and opened one in Iowa City and
then Southern California and he's now
doing like a million half a year maybe
more 100K months Kyle is you know and
Jess is like we can do and he's like
really that's possible it's like yeah so
we scaled his practice in Oklahoma City
he knew he wanted to move back to Hawaii
and buy a house so he worked backwards
from his goal how much money does he
need how much time does he need we did
that in in less than a year he had moved
back to Hawaii bought a house in Hawaii
which are not cheap like we're talking 3
400 or 3 500 or 4 000 a month mortgage
and I don't know sixty seventy thousand
dollars down
and is open another his cash practice
backup in Hawaii just for fun and see if
it takes off he'll hire someone else
there but Kyle's all about reverse
engineering your dreams he spoke at PT
bizcon about this Kyle is probably the I
think the fifth person in about a year
year and a half that bought a house from
joining The Mastermind like just Jenny
Nick Essen player bought one in new
Northern New Jersey Kyle
um and I can't remember the other two
people I just want you guys to know that
it's it's real and so what did Kyle do
he reverse engineered his dreams he
um established systems for his current
business and leveled up his training and
his leadership he took a three-week
break the business kept running and did
well without him he empowered his
employees to do workshops on their own
and and drive their own referrals and
clients so he's able to move and that's
I've replicated that from my business to
multiple other businesses now so that
leads me to say in order to do that in
order to free your time we number eight
is automate your intake your onboarding
and customer retention okay we have to
automate things is going to free up your
time so work smarter not harder so
intake queue is the I mentioned it
before was one of the first things I did
it allowed me to save probably five
hours a week the people didn't have to
show up and I didn't have to walk
through the online intake forums with
them now online intake forms are
probably more Universal but it can save
you a ton of time and it's scheduling
and they send appointment reminders and
you can do your documentation in there
you can use Google Docs I mean Google
Docs is just as easy as anything else
um we also need to use automated email
follow-ups where you predict the future
for them where like you send emails out
this is Amos Jones Welcome to our
practice here's the video that I
mentioned in our valve today by the way
you know like the next emails you know
probably like here's what people you
know oh my God what'd you do to me like
that should be the subject line what did
you do to me you know I had a patient
Andy I was like Aaron what did you do to
me like my leg hurts worse than it's
ever hurt before and I was like well I
don't know because you know a massage
therapist for three years at that point
I was like I didn't do anything well his
body was having like just this like
normal typical response it's like a pain
protective response to the Bodywork that
I did it's normal and I let people know
you know hey that's normal if you feel
sore a couple days after therapy
I also have an email that goes out
here's the three phases of our business
it's one is reduce
um pain and symptoms so that phase two
now we can find out where the root cause
of the problem was because pain masks
and changes movement
and then number three is better faster
stronger phase and I say we're in we're
the out of phase two and in phase three
when you feel like you no longer need me
because people go I don't need you
anymore I'm good that's exactly when
phase three starts and I predict the
future for them and I'm future pacing us
continuing to work together
and I do that through our automated
emails
I pre-frame what's next and in those we
also ask for reviews referrals and
feedback
like I mentioned Derek Derek put in this
exact system and that's one of the
things that allowed him to ramp up to
15K uh a month in his eighth month he
sent me a text I have it somewhere he's
like Aaron I told you when I was make
this we're going to go buy some sushi we
went and got great sushi out in San
Diego
um and he is in a brand new town how do
you do it through
um cultivating Word of Mouth referrals
through a very strong follow-up system
and automated system like Derek had a
admin work for him for a little bit but
majority of the time that he was in
business as a cash practice owner
he has been a solo provider which is
fine making over 20k months Derek is now
like decided after five or six years
that he liked the marketing piece better
and now he's going out and doing
marketing and
um digital marketing and what's he
called direct response marketing and
helping other people grow their
businesses which is totally cool which
is awesome
but he was able to grow his business and
do all these things through automations
and pre-framing what's next and
automating onboarding intake
customer retention
Etc
okay this isn't a this is really like
not like almost like a first 30 day
thing this is like you know like this
isn't gonna get your first 5k this is
gonna allow you to continue those 5K
months is that making sense this is
really for like a month two and three
because as you get happy customers we
have to get them to bring in other
people we want to cultivate Word of
Mouth we don't want to just sit back and
wait for it and rely and Hope
hope marketing isn't going to get you
anywhere we have to like actively
cultivate it so that's why it's kind of
at the end of the list
we talked about workshops before in
community I mean your personal Facebook
is probably one of the most powerful
platforms you have number nine modern
day marketing so I was talking about
Derek with this is called direct
response marketing Coca-Cola the Gap
they do um brand marketing it's like hey
we're great
most uh Physical Therapy practices are
like the physical therapy you deserve
I don't know what is the physical
therapy you deserve like I don't know
what that is someone came up with this
is a physical therapy you deserve in the
time that you need I don't know like who
knows what that is
you need to do modern day marketing
email marketing direct response
marketing your websites are pretty good
but what you really need is an
application funnel this is something we
install for all our Platinum Mastermind
members it's a place where people can go
online to their website and apply to
become their client it creates bigger
buy-in and it there's a follow-up email
that goes along with it so like from the
automation or the automations confirms
with people that they contacted the
right place that you know what they're
talking about and gives you information
about them before we get on a phone call
with them and Fortune is in the
follow-up whereas we just have to be
politely persistent follow up with
people not expect anything in return
we're just out there to give and it'll
come back and Michael Murphy was one of
our most successful Mastermind members
at this he networked with everyone in
town
he was consistent he did this every week
he had time on his schedule weekly maybe
even daily I didn't actually look at the
schedule to do these activities I it was
like there was time every day to make
five new phone calls and then time to
follow up with people and then he was
doing workshops and events and just
meeting people in person consistently
and he went from zero to 20K months in
less than a year and enough to you know
to hire to you know start the hiring
process the hiring process can take a
while but to start the hiring process
and in his first year for another PT and
go out and start working on other
business ventures which is amazing and
it's most it's because of the marketing
strategies we set up and not the same
marketing strategies that most people
teach and not Facebook marketing and not
brand marketing and not just straight up
like you build a website and people come
because you can build a website and no
one's going to land on it you have to do
this so direct response marketing is I
create an ad or a thing and I'm asking
you to respond to it just like my
the cash PT checklist like it's a
marketing thing and you either are going
to close the page or you're going to
enter your name and email in there and
you're going to download it or my free
book you know cash BD blueprint book I
mean it's like you're either gonna get
it or you won't it's not a hey call us
when you think about us the next time
you get hurt because I'm a doctor and I
wear glasses and have my hold a pen in a
magazine on the airplane
you know those airplane magazines that
have the 10 10 best doctors in America
and there's never a physical therapist
on there well you know I mean it's just
a paid advertisement for you know
expensive like dermatologists and
um what are they called the
cosmetic surgeons things like that like
I said I've got a whole course on
marketing I've got multiple courses on
marketing there's a lot but those are
the big ones so just understand it's
modern day marketing don't do it
everyone else like other businesses are
doing you need to do what you know
already works for physical therapy cash
practices we've talked about a lot of it
but there is more in there we've got a
whole roadmap for our Platinum
Mastermind with a whole like marketing
column there's Marketing sales systems
and scale
and um there's a lot of things to work
on but what are the big ones is the
things we've already talked about
okay number 10 get your advice from the
right people just because your roommate
or classmate start a cash practice
doesn't mean that their system is the
one to go from I mean if they took a
course of mine or someone else's and
then they're teaching you my stuff or
someone else's stuff they're just
reteaching someone else's stuff and
you're kind of getting it for free and
how valuable is that and how watered
down and diluted is it right
or maybe your roommate or classmate or
CI is like cash practice will never work
don't listen to them
especially don't listen to them maybe
your friend who's got a cash practice
and give you some pointers but please
don't just go ask them to pick their
brain that's disrespectful go pay him
100 bucks for the hour or something like
that if you're a PT student don't listen
to other Dino pts and professors who
tell you you need five years of
experience one of my biggest pet peeves
is hearing are the pts saying oh I need
to just go get the cscs so I can start
my cash practice or get my OCS so I can
start a cash practice finish my
fellowship like you don't need that you
do not need that to start a cash
practice you need that to be respected
in the APTA what would you rather be
respected in the abta or help thousands
of patients and make money while doing
it make more than a hundred thousand
dollars a year doing it I mean I'd
rather make a million dollars a year
helping 100 million people
I don't even make a I don't help 100
million people to make a million dollars
a year I need help 50 people to make a
million dollars a year I mean really if
you charge the right price that's all
you need maybe you need to make maybe
you need to make help 150 people to make
a million dollars a year you know doing
like a visit plan to care
it's not a lot I'd rather do that than
wait five years to get started because
someone told me I needed more education
in physical therapy and because they
don't trust me just
get your advice in the right people
I started cash practice when I was a new
grad I've helped I stopped counting how
many new grads have helped launch
six-figure cash practices I mean we've
got two members in our Mastermind right
now one who joined I think a month or
two after she graduated
um she was starting she had you know
opened a a gym before and then knew she
needed coaching to get her cash practice
going off the ground and now she's
crushing it and social media and her
practice and is Robin ringberg doing uh
focusing on Fighters people doing MMA
and jiu jitsu
um Maria whisman is a new grad she
joined two months before graduation she
actually missed out on most of her
graduation weekend to be at our last
Retreat because it is more important to
her because of her mindset she's got her
mindset in the right place she'd listen
they're both listening the right people
I helped so many people do do that over
the years I just need to understand that
if someone's telling you you can't don't
listen to them please I'm never going to
tell you you can't or you should not say
you should probably focus on this other
thing first based on my experience but
you know you don't have to agree with me
either what I'm saying is get your
advice from the right people
hey make sure that you're in a room
and you're learning from people who've
done what you're doing and are more
successful than you want to be
makes sense that's part about being
coachable
is
listening to the right people and then
paying for the advice and then once you
pay for it just like you're asking your
clients to pay for your help
you'll be you'll be more inclined to do
the work and even more successful
and
you know if we're talking about pricing
Services the more people pay the more
they pay attention that's why when EMR
companies come to me and they're like
you're not anymore companies I'm sorry
app companies like we've got this home
exercise program app it helps comp
patient compliance and I'm like well I
have no problem with patient compliance
I'm like you didn't even ask me if that
was my problem they're like you should
do this because it improves home
exercise compliance I'm like people pay
250 bucks to see me I don't have a
compliance issue
I just don't
right our coaching my coaching clients
that pay 2 000 a month or 50 000 a year
I don't have a compliance problem
some of them have an indecision problem
and that's about being coachable I said
before but 50 000 a year clients don't
for sure it's like tell me what to do
and I'm gonna do it
boom I mean I paid 300 bucks a month for
um coaching with Brett Jones who's a
director of education at uh strong first
I want to become strong for a certified
I pay like 300 something dollars a month
he tells me what to do and I do it I
mean like and I'm much stronger now
I'm getting ready I'm snatching 24
kilograms like
it was 16 you know 16 kilograms five
years ago I mean it's nothing for me
snatching 28 is a different story but
that's a big change in uh weight
um and uh you know whatever just get
your advice from the right people pay
for Speed
that's it this is still really this is
back to a mindset thing I just need to
understand that so I'm gonna give you a
bonus
because I just can't help myself work in
sprints
and build a personalized 90-day game
plan like we can talk about a five-year
goal a one-year goal but really the
thing that's good there's so much to do
even I just this training is too much it
really is
like that's why I started with a
checklist and you know I've got this
free webinar and our course and
mastering but like like I said like what
are the things that I want you to do
like if there was one plan
to go from zero to 5K a month like what
we just talked about is it and there's
more to learn about each thing so don't
overthink it
just work in Sprints here you know you
need to get a personalized game plan we
do this three times a year in our
Mastermind we build personalized game
plans every new person who comes on
board we build one together you and me
because you need to have Focus you know
okay here's my goal here's my focus and
then like a racehorse you got to put on
the blinders because the good idea Ferry
is going to come out of nowhere and land
on your shoulder and be like hey
Jennifer you should start an online
course you're like but my focus is my
cash practice like hey Jennifer you
should become I don't know buy a game
ready or a you know Norma Tech boots for
a thousand dollars and you're like I
don't need that to make the money and
make the five thousand dollars
you know hey you know if your uh Niche
is Jiu Jitsu like Robin and the running
club is like hey you should come do a
thing at the running club and rent a
spot at our you know yoga studio you
need to be like nope my focus is on my
you know BJJ athletes
I mean you know it's called it's all
other also called shiny object syndrome
where someone says hey you need this
brand new thing it's gonna solve all
your this one software is going to solve
all your problems but you haven't made
any money like just focus on making the
money
and then we can decide on whether that's
a shiny object or it's a necessary thing
right you're going to see five people
offering the same thing you know the
same course the same software the same
this there's gonna be five different
options
just make a choice and move on you know
whether it's my stuff or someone else's
stuff whether I'm an affiliate or not
just the best thing for you to do is
find like what's the EMR what's the
software what's the thing that makes the
most sense to me
make a decision and keep going because
you can always you know course correct
later
but if you work in Sprints like
six you know not 90 day Sprints six week
Sprints 30 minutes at a time okay so we
do these pomodoros in our Mastermind you
join The Mastermind you get a
a journal whether you keep a journal or
not the whole idea is you work in like
little 20-minute Sprints 30 minute
Sprints like this training is more than
that I don't even know how much how long
it is right now it's almost too long
and by the end of this I'm like I should
be charging like a thousand dollars for
this training but anyways we're in
Sprints right that's how I built this is
like it just worked in Sprints boom boom
boom you just put down my ideas go fill
it in do it and then like okay let's go
record this thing we're gonna Sprint
right time block
on Mondays at this time I'm going to
meet with my you know I meet with my
team on Mondays at nine and ten
on Fridays I record uh like a podcast
um Tuesday Wednesday Thursday mornings
is more like deep work thinking creation
Tuesday Wednesday uh Thursday afternoons
are calls every Tuesday at noon is a
call for our Platinum Mastermind I pick
up my kids you know so my schedule is
like dialed in my can pick on my kids
um 3 30 on Mondays and Tuesdays
you know I drop them off I mean like I
know when I'm doing all those things
I've got my workouts planned at noon
Monday Wednesday Thursday Friday on the
weekends I put them in the afternoons
but there's a little bit more flexible
about when I do them
okay
we're going to Sprint get a personalized
game plan and time block
and you'll be successful
okay that was a lot
I actually talked faster than I usually
do because I want to try to get it all
in it's too much
and I probably shouldn't put that much
in like maybe I shouldn't have told as
many stories or whatnot but I hope you
got a lot out of this so I'd love you to
do right now is if you we were coaching
in person I'd ask you what was most
helpful for you or what was most
insightful for you about this is maybe
you're just like
write down type it out like what was
most helpful for you about this right
now or what do you know you already need
to do just write that down maybe you can
pause this and just write it down and
come back but what is it that you know
you already need to change and what's
been most helpful for you about this
you know
um look like I mentioned before me I
mentioned this before I'm not here to
solve all your problems
if you start taking action on these
we're going to create new problems
I'm here to give you bigger better money
making problems like I want you to have
good problems I want you to have a
problem of like Aaron you know I've got
20 people a week and I'm I'm mobile and
I don't have any more time and I need to
move to brick and mortar or I've got
this small space in the gym and I need
to get into a bigger space and you need
help negotiating your lease I mean I
helped save Ruth back on twenty thousand
dollars
you know in negotiating a lease for her
and this is like six years ago I want
you to have the problem of I'm too busy
I've got a wait list and I need to hire
because we need to buy your time back so
you can build your business even bigger
or have more time for your kids your
family I want you to have the problem of
how do I best invest my money in and
build wealth you know how do I automate
your clinic so you can go on a
three-week four-week vacation
or automate it so that you can start an
online business so we can figure that
one out or open another location
and then we have more Staffing
leadership problems you know how do we
scale you know you know I want you to
get stuck at sixty five thousand dollars
a month so we can open that bottleneck
so my goal with this training is to get
you to 5K months so we can start to have
a real conversation about what it looks
like to work together and building a
bigger vision for you like I mean
selfishly I want you to be in The
Mastermind because I think it's the best
value that I can provide you because we
build you a game plan we meet three
times a year we get to see each other
almost weekly on Zoom three times a year
and it's an amazing community that did
not exist when I started when I started
the APTA Private Practice section had a
list of you know mentors and I contacted
the first person I contacted
ask me a little bit about my business he
said it'd be a conflict of interest for
me to help you I'm like and he is 30
minutes away and in network practice and
I told him I'm starting a cash only
practice
and it was a conflict of interest I mean
that's the resistance I got I mean I got
so much resistance from APTA it's not
funny
I guess I didn't know when to stop
so that's my goal is to help you is like
with this training you can do it you
know
um the thing is is maybe you need some
more help you know once you get to 5K
then we need to start talking about like
the non-profit accelerators and which
are the big three ones that we can put
into play for you
um and then from there look at a road
map and say okay here's the projects
that you need to get you to you know 10K
months from 10 to 40K months 40K to 70k
months what are those projects
you know so that's my goal you know and
look if you want to have a because I
want to have a real conversation about
not just launching a practice and super
bills and
um you know how do we have these
conversations with uh
patients about insurance
Medicare dealing with HIPAA all those
things like I want to talk about like
let's let's strategize plans to grow and
scale your business and give you that
you know four week vacation or allow you
to move back home or open another
location like I said or just grow your
business and help more people add three
or four more employees
um so you can grow a DME business on the
side you know and work less and make
more I've got many Mastermind members
are working two to three days a week
making 30 40 50k months which is dope
like getting theirs like those are some
of the real conversations
so it's over to you now to do the work
um or if you want and you want to get in
touch with me so we can build a
personalized game plan just
you know DM me on Instagram you know
game plan
and I'll reply back to you with some
details and some questions and we can
hop on a call and build out a
personalized game plan for you to crush
your goals otherwise
um you know if you're not ready for that
yet no worries if you want my free book
and get the checklist you can DM me the
word book on Instagram as well
um
or if uh if you don't want help no
worries I want to know what was most
helpful for you about this if you've
watched this training you've gone
through this and you've taken any action
and even if you don't want to any more
help from me I really would love the
feedback to know what was helpful what
was insightful and what other questions
do you have so that I can make the next
training even better I hope you got a
lot out of this I just spent a lot of
time putting it together I've got you
know years of helping people and these
are those essential things that I know
are going to get you to 5K months so
that you don't have to worry about where
the money is coming from so you can
invest in yourself you can grow your
business you can pay off your loans you
can buy a house
and you can invest in helping even more
patients in your community all right
thanks so much my name is Aaron if you
didn't already know that
um I look forward to meeting you in
person soon
peace oh yeah if you want that
personalized game plan just DM me the
word game plan and we'll do it I'll set
you up with our team we'll look at your
business we'll brainstorm some ideas
find the bottlenecks the hidden
opportunities and build you a plan to
grow it scale it have a ton of fun
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you foreign
