that's the deal that's a little trick as
you can see it's very simple
this ebook like while I've spent a lot
of time learning and it figured out how
to explain this really easily
this ebook only took me maybe an hour to
write the other day so I'm gonna load up
my new ebook that I'm that I just made
and show you guys what we did okay so
I've got a new ebook it's the five
questions you need to ask in your
evaluation for all new patients in order
to get them to pay cash for physical
therapy here's what we did we've got you
know this ebook so what is it it's just
a blue background with some text and
it's got the content is the amazing
content information but it's a Word
document so if I just send a Word
document out to everybody what's gonna
happen you know they'll be able to
change it and whatnot I want to make it
a PDF so how do you make it a PDF and so
here's the ninja trick because for a
long time I had to go to a PC or get
someone else to do this for me because
you want the PDF to have a link that's
clickable especially at the end when you
have a call to action because once you
have the link and you put in your email
sequence you don't actually need to go
find it anymore that's the most amazing
thing so here's my this is what people
are gonna get and then at the end let's
see right here there's a clickable link
and then here is a clickable link
because what you want to be able to do
is have links click okay so because in
your ebook you want to you know for your
clinic you want to kind of sell people
on the free consultation or a free total
body diagnostic or you know what's the
next step for them I'll show you this so
this is the ninja thing you're gonna
write your ebook up in Word and really
like I said this is just word arial font
26 and 16 and we made the background
blue we added my logo and a few pictures
I mean nothing too crazy and what do we
need to do we need to go to save as and
we're gonna save it as a PDF and what
you want is use this best for electronic
distribution and accessibility if you
use the best for printing which I think
used to be the default in Mac or hidden
somewhere else that would make it so it
wasn't clickable so for years we had to
go and ID to go use the PC
at the clinic but you do that you do
export and boom it converts and then I
gotta go to my my file that's right here
what you're gonna do is you're gonna go
grab the Dropbox link copy Dropbox link
and you're gonna go insert that link
into your auto-replies on your emails
and I will do that in activecampaign
let's see I can show you where that is
an active campaign here give me a second
all right there we go so here's my top 5
questions ebook that I just made for you
guys very first email you go in here
edit and here it is it says download
link I actually need to make that blue
okay
download link alright you would
highlight this and you you paste in the
Dropbox link which is already in there
and you do the same thing and then we
set it to save and exit you can add a
couple other follow-up emails etc and
this is one of those things where when
you're doing this for your patients and
for your clinic this is how you create
those automated follow-up email messages
that get people to refer patients to you
they get people to see the value they
get people to understand how you can
help them before they even come in to
see you and it's like you deliver value
and results first and then people like
oh I trust you I'm gonna come see you
for physical therapy that's the deal
that's the little trick as you can see
it's very simple this ebook like while
I've spent a lot of time learning and it
figured out how to explain this really
easily
this ebook only took me maybe an hour to
write the other day so I hope that helps
demystify the whole ebook thing because
ebooks they're not that complicated they
can seem a little intimidating and
you're like well how do I do that
well it's just about create a word
document with some important
instructions make sure you're always
creating a call to action for someone
what to do next and then you're gonna
create a PDF out of it with a clickable
link using the little trick I showed you
you can use this Microsoft Word I'm sure
there's a way to do it in Google Drive
Google Docs and that's it and then you
create an email automation sequence just
so when people land on your page like we
use a click files page when they land on
that they give you their name for a
number an email for some information
about you know back
which is what we offer and then you
deliver it automatically I hope this has
been helpful let me know like comment
below the video if you have questions or
if this has helped you if this has made
a sense and if you'd like to see a few
more videos like this in the future
alright thanks so much hope you guys had
a great day
[Music]
